solution/2900-2999/2985.Calculate Compressed Mean/README_EN.md, before:

# [2985. Calculate Compressed Mean](https://leetcode.com/problems/calculate-compressed-mean)

[中文文档](/solution/2900-2999/2985.Calculate%20Compressed%20Mean/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------------+------+
| Column Name       | Type |
+-------------------+------+
| order_id          | int  |
| item_count        | int  |
| order_occurrences | int  |
+-------------------+------+
order_id is column of unique values for this table.
This table contains order_id, item_count, and order_occurrences.
</pre>

<p>Write a solution to calculate the <strong>average</strong> number of items per order, rounded to <code>2</code> <strong>decimal places</strong>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the result table</em><em> in <strong>any</strong> order</em><em>.</em></p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Orders table:
+----------+------------+-------------------+
| order_id | item_count | order_occurrences | 
+----------+------------+-------------------+
| 10       | 1          | 500               | 
| 11       | 2          | 1000              |     
| 12       | 3          | 800               |  
| 13       | 4          | 1000              | 
+----------+------------+-------------------+
<strong>Output</strong>
+-------------------------+
| average_items_per_order | 
+-------------------------+
| 2.70                    |
+-------------------------+
<strong>Explanation</strong>
The calculation is as follows:
 - Total items: (1 * 500) + (2 * 1000) + (3 * 800) + (4 * 1000) = 8900 
 - Total orders: 500 + 1000 + 800 + 1000 = 3300 
 - Therefore, the average items per order is 8900 / 3300 = 2.70</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    ROUND(
        SUM(item_count * order_occurrences) / SUM(order_occurrences),
        2
    ) AS average_items_per_order
FROM Orders;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.2487.Remove Nodes From Linked List
* No.2806.Account Balance After Rounded Purchase
* No.2807.Insert Greatest Common Divisors in Linked List
* No.2808.Minimum Seconds to Equalize a Circular Array
* No.2809.Minimum Time to Make Array Sum At Most x
* No.2810.Faulty Keyboard
* No.2811.Check if it is Possible to Split Array
* No.2985.Calculate Compressed Mean
* No.2987.Find Expensive Cities
* No.2988.Manager of the Largest Department

solution/2900-2999/2985.Calculate Compressed Mean/README_EN.md, after:

# [2985. Calculate Compressed Mean](https://leetcode.com/problems/calculate-compressed-mean)

[中文文档](/solution/2900-2999/2985.Calculate%20Compressed%20Mean/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------------+------+
| Column Name       | Type |
+-------------------+------+
| order_id          | int  |
| item_count        | int  |
| order_occurrences | int  |
+-------------------+------+
order_id is column of unique values for this table.
This table contains order_id, item_count, and order_occurrences.
</pre>

<p>Write a solution to calculate the <strong>average</strong> number of items per order, rounded to <code>2</code> <strong>decimal places</strong>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the result table</em><em> in <strong>any</strong> order</em><em>.</em></p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Orders table:
+----------+------------+-------------------+
| order_id | item_count | order_occurrences | 
+----------+------------+-------------------+
| 10       | 1          | 500               | 
| 11       | 2          | 1000              |     
| 12       | 3          | 800               |  
| 13       | 4          | 1000              | 
+----------+------------+-------------------+
<strong>Output</strong>
+-------------------------+
| average_items_per_order | 
+-------------------------+
| 2.70                    |
+-------------------------+
<strong>Explanation</strong>
The calculation is as follows:
 - Total items: (1 * 500) + (2 * 1000) + (3 * 800) + (4 * 1000) = 8900 
 - Total orders: 500 + 1000 + 800 + 1000 = 3300 
 - Therefore, the average items per order is 8900 / 3300 = 2.70</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Summation**

We use the `SUM` function to calculate the total quantity of products and the total number of orders, then divide the total quantity by the total number of orders to get the average. Finally, we use the `ROUND` function to round the result to two decimal places.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    ROUND(
        SUM(item_count * order_occurrences) / SUM(order_occurrences),
        2
    ) AS average_items_per_order
FROM Orders;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
