solution/1500-1599/1535.Find the Winner of an Array Game/README_EN.md, before:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Medium
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/1500-1599/1535.Find%20the%20Winner%20of%20an%20Array%20Game/README_EN.md
rating: 1433
source: Weekly Contest 200 Q2
tags:
    - Array
    - Simulation
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [1535. Find the Winner of an Array Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-winner-of-an-array-game)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1535.Find%20the%20Winner%20of%20an%20Array%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>Given an integer array <code>arr</code> of <strong>distinct</strong> integers and an integer <code>k</code>.</p>

<p>A game will be played between the first two elements of the array (i.e. <code>arr[0]</code> and <code>arr[1]</code>). In each round of the game, we compare <code>arr[0]</code> with <code>arr[1]</code>, the larger integer wins and remains at position <code>0</code>, and the smaller integer moves to the end of the array. The game ends when an integer wins <code>k</code> consecutive rounds.</p>

<p>Return <em>the integer which will win the game</em>.</p>

<p>It is <strong>guaranteed</strong> that there will be a winner of the game.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> arr = [2,1,3,5,4,6,7], k = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Let&#39;s see the rounds of the game:
Round |       arr       | winner | win_count
  1   | [2,1,3,5,4,6,7] | 2      | 1
  2   | [2,3,5,4,6,7,1] | 3      | 1
  3   | [3,5,4,6,7,1,2] | 5      | 1
  4   | [5,4,6,7,1,2,3] | 5      | 2
So we can see that 4 rounds will be played and 5 is the winner because it wins 2 consecutive games.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> arr = [3,2,1], k = 10
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 3 will win the first 10 rounds consecutively.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>2 &lt;= arr.length &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= arr[i] &lt;= 10<sup>6</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>arr</code> contains <strong>distinct</strong> integers.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= k &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def getWinner(self, arr: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        mx = arr[0]
        cnt = 0
        for x in arr[1:]:
            if mx < x:
                mx = x
                cnt = 1
            else:
                cnt += 1
            if cnt == k:
                break
        return mx
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int getWinner(int[] arr, int k) {
        int mx = arr[0];
        for (int i = 1, cnt = 0; i < arr.length; ++i) {
            if (mx < arr[i]) {
                mx = arr[i];
                cnt = 1;
            } else {
                ++cnt;
            }
            if (cnt == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return mx;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int getWinner(vector<int>& arr, int k) {
        int mx = arr[0];
        for (int i = 1, cnt = 0; i < arr.size(); ++i) {
            if (mx < arr[i]) {
                mx = arr[i];
                cnt = 1;
            } else {
                ++cnt;
            }
            if (cnt == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return mx;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func getWinner(arr []int, k int) int {
	mx, cnt := arr[0], 0
	for _, x := range arr[1:] {
		if mx < x {
			mx = x
			cnt = 1
		} else {
			cnt++
		}
		if cnt == k {
			break
		}
	}
	return mx
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function getWinner(arr: number[], k: number): number {
    let mx = arr[0];
    let cnt = 0;
    for (const x of arr.slice(1)) {
        if (mx < x) {
            mx = x;
            cnt = 1;
        } else {
            ++cnt;
        }
        if (cnt === k) {
            break;
        }
    }
    return mx;
}
```

#### C#

```cs
public class Solution {
    public int GetWinner(int[] arr, int k) {
        int maxElement = arr[0], count = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i < arr.Length; i++) {
            if (maxElement < arr[i]) {
                maxElement = arr[i];
                count = 1;
            } else {
                count++;
            }
            if (count == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return maxElement;
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.3174,3175,3182 (#3086)

solution/1500-1599/1535.Find the Winner of an Array Game/README_EN.md, after:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Medium
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/1500-1599/1535.Find%20the%20Winner%20of%20an%20Array%20Game/README_EN.md
rating: 1433
source: Weekly Contest 200 Q2
tags:
    - Array
    - Simulation
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [1535. Find the Winner of an Array Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-winner-of-an-array-game)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1535.Find%20the%20Winner%20of%20an%20Array%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>Given an integer array <code>arr</code> of <strong>distinct</strong> integers and an integer <code>k</code>.</p>

<p>A game will be played between the first two elements of the array (i.e. <code>arr[0]</code> and <code>arr[1]</code>). In each round of the game, we compare <code>arr[0]</code> with <code>arr[1]</code>, the larger integer wins and remains at position <code>0</code>, and the smaller integer moves to the end of the array. The game ends when an integer wins <code>k</code> consecutive rounds.</p>

<p>Return <em>the integer which will win the game</em>.</p>

<p>It is <strong>guaranteed</strong> that there will be a winner of the game.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> arr = [2,1,3,5,4,6,7], k = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Let&#39;s see the rounds of the game:
Round |       arr       | winner | win_count
  1   | [2,1,3,5,4,6,7] | 2      | 1
  2   | [2,3,5,4,6,7,1] | 3      | 1
  3   | [3,5,4,6,7,1,2] | 5      | 1
  4   | [5,4,6,7,1,2,3] | 5      | 2
So we can see that 4 rounds will be played and 5 is the winner because it wins 2 consecutive games.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> arr = [3,2,1], k = 10
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 3 will win the first 10 rounds consecutively.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>2 &lt;= arr.length &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= arr[i] &lt;= 10<sup>6</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>arr</code> contains <strong>distinct</strong> integers.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= k &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Quick Thinking

We notice that each time the first two elements of the array are compared, regardless of the result, the next comparison will always be between the next element in the array and the current winner. Therefore, if we have looped $n-1$ times, the final winner must be the maximum element in the array. Otherwise, if an element has won consecutively $k$ times, then this element is the final winner.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, where $n$ is the length of the array. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

Similar problems:

-   [1535. Find the Winner of an Array Game](https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/blob/main/solution/3100-3199/3175.Find%20The%20First%20Player%20to%20win%20K%20Games%20in%20a%20Row/README_EN.md)

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def getWinner(self, arr: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        mx = arr[0]
        cnt = 0
        for x in arr[1:]:
            if mx < x:
                mx = x
                cnt = 1
            else:
                cnt += 1
            if cnt == k:
                break
        return mx
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int getWinner(int[] arr, int k) {
        int mx = arr[0];
        for (int i = 1, cnt = 0; i < arr.length; ++i) {
            if (mx < arr[i]) {
                mx = arr[i];
                cnt = 1;
            } else {
                ++cnt;
            }
            if (cnt == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return mx;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int getWinner(vector<int>& arr, int k) {
        int mx = arr[0];
        for (int i = 1, cnt = 0; i < arr.size(); ++i) {
            if (mx < arr[i]) {
                mx = arr[i];
                cnt = 1;
            } else {
                ++cnt;
            }
            if (cnt == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return mx;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func getWinner(arr []int, k int) int {
	mx, cnt := arr[0], 0
	for _, x := range arr[1:] {
		if mx < x {
			mx = x
			cnt = 1
		} else {
			cnt++
		}
		if cnt == k {
			break
		}
	}
	return mx
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function getWinner(arr: number[], k: number): number {
    let mx = arr[0];
    let cnt = 0;
    for (const x of arr.slice(1)) {
        if (mx < x) {
            mx = x;
            cnt = 1;
        } else {
            ++cnt;
        }
        if (cnt === k) {
            break;
        }
    }
    return mx;
}
```

#### C#

```cs
public class Solution {
    public int GetWinner(int[] arr, int k) {
        int maxElement = arr[0], count = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i < arr.Length; i++) {
            if (maxElement < arr[i]) {
                maxElement = arr[i];
                count = 1;
            } else {
                count++;
            }
            if (count == k) {
                break;
            }
        }
        return maxElement;
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->
