solution/0500-0599/0512.Game Play Analysis II/README_EN.md, before:

# [512. Game Play Analysis II](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-ii)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0512.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20II/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the <strong>device</strong> that is first logged in for each player.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-05-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-----------+
| player_id | device_id |
+-----------+-----------+
| 1         | 2         |
| 2         | 3         |
| 3         | 1         |
+-----------+-----------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    player_id,
    device_id
FROM Activity
WHERE
    (player_id, event_date) IN (
        SELECT
            player_id,
            min(event_date) AS event_date
        FROM Activity
        GROUP BY player_id
    );
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            *,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY player_id
                ORDER BY event_date
            ) AS rk
        FROM Activity
    )
SELECT player_id, device_id
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.0512,1303,1350,1747,1783
* No.0512.Game Play Analysis II
* No.1303.Find the Team Size
* No.1350.Students With Invalid Departments
* No.1747.Leetflex Banned Accounts
* No.1783.Grand Slam Titles

solution/0500-0599/0512.Game Play Analysis II/README_EN.md, after:

# [512. Game Play Analysis II](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-ii)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0512.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20II/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the <strong>device</strong> that is first logged in for each player.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-05-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-----------+
| player_id | device_id |
+-----------+-----------+
| 1         | 2         |
| 2         | 3         |
| 3         | 1         |
+-----------+-----------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Subquery**

We can use `GROUP BY` and `MIN` functions to find the first login date for each player, and then use a subquery with a composite key to find the first login device for each player.

**Solution 2: Window Function**

We can use the window function `rank()`, which assigns a rank to each login date for each player, and then select the rows with a rank of $1$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    player_id,
    device_id
FROM Activity
WHERE
    (player_id, event_date) IN (
        SELECT
            player_id,
            min(event_date) AS event_date
        FROM Activity
        GROUP BY 1
    );
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            *,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY player_id
                ORDER BY event_date
            ) AS rk
        FROM Activity
    )
SELECT player_id, device_id
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
