solution/1700-1799/1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee/README_EN.md, before:

# [1741. Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-total-time-spent-by-each-employee)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1741.Find%20Total%20Time%20Spent%20by%20Each%20Employee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employees</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| emp_id      | int  |
| event_day   | date |
| in_time     | int  |
| out_time    | int  |
+-------------+------+
(emp_id, event_day, in_time) is the primary key (combinations of columns with unique values) of this table.
The table shows the employees&#39; entries and exits in an office.
event_day is the day at which this event happened, in_time is the minute at which the employee entered the office, and out_time is the minute at which they left the office.
in_time and out_time are between 1 and 1440.
It is guaranteed that no two events on the same day intersect in time, and in_time &lt; out_time.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to calculate the total time <strong>in minutes</strong> spent by each employee on each day at the office. Note that within one day, an employee can enter and leave more than once. The time spent in the office for a single entry is <code>out_time - in_time</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employees table:
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
| emp_id | event_day  | in_time | out_time |
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
| 1      | 2020-11-28 | 4       | 32       |
| 1      | 2020-11-28 | 55      | 200      |
| 1      | 2020-12-03 | 1       | 42       |
| 2      | 2020-11-28 | 3       | 33       |
| 2      | 2020-12-09 | 47      | 74       |
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+--------+------------+
| day        | emp_id | total_time |
+------------+--------+------------+
| 2020-11-28 | 1      | 173        |
| 2020-11-28 | 2      | 30         |
| 2020-12-03 | 1      | 41         |
| 2020-12-09 | 2      | 27         |
+------------+--------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Employee 1 has three events: two on day 2020-11-28 with a total of (32 - 4) + (200 - 55) = 173, and one on day 2020-12-03 with a total of (42 - 1) = 41.
Employee 2 has two events: one on day 2020-11-28 with a total of (33 - 3) = 30, and one on day 2020-12-09 with a total of (74 - 47) = 27.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
SELECT
    event_day AS day,
    emp_id,
    SUM(out_time - in_time) AS total_time
FROM Employees
GROUP BY emp_id, event_day;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.0511.Game Play Analysis I
* No.0586.Customer Placing the Largest Number of Orders
* No.1212.Team Scores in Football Tournament
* No.1440.Evaluate Boolean Expression
* No.1571.Warehouse Manager
* No.1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee
* No.1742.Maximum Number of Balls in a Box
* No.1890.The Latest Login in 2020
* No.2512.Reward Top K Students

solution/1700-1799/1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee/README_EN.md, after:

# [1741. Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-total-time-spent-by-each-employee)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1741.Find%20Total%20Time%20Spent%20by%20Each%20Employee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employees</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| emp_id      | int  |
| event_day   | date |
| in_time     | int  |
| out_time    | int  |
+-------------+------+
(emp_id, event_day, in_time) is the primary key (combinations of columns with unique values) of this table.
The table shows the employees&#39; entries and exits in an office.
event_day is the day at which this event happened, in_time is the minute at which the employee entered the office, and out_time is the minute at which they left the office.
in_time and out_time are between 1 and 1440.
It is guaranteed that no two events on the same day intersect in time, and in_time &lt; out_time.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to calculate the total time <strong>in minutes</strong> spent by each employee on each day at the office. Note that within one day, an employee can enter and leave more than once. The time spent in the office for a single entry is <code>out_time - in_time</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employees table:
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
| emp_id | event_day  | in_time | out_time |
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
| 1      | 2020-11-28 | 4       | 32       |
| 1      | 2020-11-28 | 55      | 200      |
| 1      | 2020-12-03 | 1       | 42       |
| 2      | 2020-11-28 | 3       | 33       |
| 2      | 2020-12-09 | 47      | 74       |
+--------+------------+---------+----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+--------+------------+
| day        | emp_id | total_time |
+------------+--------+------------+
| 2020-11-28 | 1      | 173        |
| 2020-11-28 | 2      | 30         |
| 2020-12-03 | 1      | 41         |
| 2020-12-09 | 2      | 27         |
+------------+--------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Employee 1 has three events: two on day 2020-11-28 with a total of (32 - 4) + (200 - 55) = 173, and one on day 2020-12-03 with a total of (42 - 1) = 41.
Employee 2 has two events: one on day 2020-11-28 with a total of (33 - 3) = 30, and one on day 2020-12-09 with a total of (74 - 47) = 27.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Sum Function**

We can first group by `emp_id` and `event_day`, and then calculate the total time for each group. The total time is equal to the sum of the differences between `out_time` and `in_time` for each record in the group.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT event_day AS day, emp_id, sum(out_time - in_time) AS total_time
FROM Employees
GROUP BY 1, 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
