solution/0500-0599/0550.Game Play Analysis IV/README_EN.md, before:

# [550. Game Play Analysis IV](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-iv)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0550.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20IV/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a&nbsp;solution&nbsp;to report the <strong>fraction</strong> of players that logged in again on the day after the day they first logged in, <strong>rounded to 2 decimal places</strong>. In other words, you need to count the number of players that logged in for at least two consecutive days starting from their first login date, then divide that number by the total number of players.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+
| fraction  |
+-----------+
| 0.33      |
+-----------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Only the player with id 1 logged back in after the first day he had logged in so the answer is 1/3 = 0.33
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT ROUND(AVG(b.event_date IS NOT NULL), 2) AS fraction
FROM
    (
        SELECT
            player_id,
            MIN(event_date) AS event_date
        FROM activity
        GROUP BY player_id
    ) AS a
    LEFT JOIN activity AS b
        ON a.player_id = b.player_id AND DATEDIFF(a.event_date, b.event_date) = -1;
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            player_id,
            DATEDIFF(
                LEAD(event_date) OVER (
                    PARTITION BY player_id
                    ORDER BY event_date
                ),
                event_date
            ) AS diff,
            ROW_NUMBER() OVER (
                PARTITION BY player_id
                ORDER BY event_date
            ) AS rk
        FROM Activity
    )
SELECT
    ROUND(
        COUNT(DISTINCT IF(diff = 1, player_id, NULL)) / COUNT(
            DISTINCT player_id
        ),
        2
    ) AS fraction
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add sql solutions to lc problems
* No.0550.Game Play Analysis IV
* No.0596.Classes More Than 5 Students
* No.0619.Biggest Single Number
* No.1045.Customers Who Bought All Products
* No.1729.Find Followers Count
* No.1731.The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee
* No.1789.Primary Department for Each Employee

solution/0500-0599/0550.Game Play Analysis IV/README_EN.md, after:

# [550. Game Play Analysis IV](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-iv)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0550.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20IV/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a&nbsp;solution&nbsp;to report the <strong>fraction</strong> of players that logged in again on the day after the day they first logged in, <strong>rounded to 2 decimal places</strong>. In other words, you need to count the number of players that logged in for at least two consecutive days starting from their first login date, then divide that number by the total number of players.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+
| fraction  |
+-----------+
| 0.33      |
+-----------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Only the player with id 1 logged back in after the first day he had logged in so the answer is 1/3 = 0.33
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Grouping and Minimum Value + Left Join**

We can first find the first login date of each player, and then perform a left join with the original table, with the join condition being that the player ID is the same and the date difference is $-1$, which means the player logged in on the second day. Then, we only need to calculate the ratio of non-null players among the players who logged in on the second day.

**Solution 2: Window Function**

We can use the `LEAD` window function to get the next login date of each player. If the next login date is one day after the current login date, it means that the player logged in on the second day, and we use a field $st$ to record this information. Then, we use the `RANK` window function to rank the player IDs in ascending order by date, and get the login ranking of each player. Finally, we only need to calculate the ratio of non-null $st$ values among the players with a ranking of $1$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT ROUND(AVG(b.event_date IS NOT NULL), 2) AS fraction
FROM
    (
        SELECT player_id, MIN(event_date) AS event_date
        FROM Activity
        GROUP BY 1
    ) AS a
    LEFT JOIN Activity AS b
        ON a.player_id = b.player_id AND DATEDIFF(a.event_date, b.event_date) = -1;
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            player_id,
            DATEDIFF(
                LEAD(event_date) OVER (
                    PARTITION BY player_id
                    ORDER BY event_date
                ),
                event_date
            ) = 1 AS st,
            RANK() OVER (
                PARTITION BY player_id
                ORDER BY event_date
            ) AS rk
        FROM Activity
    )
SELECT ROUND(COUNT(IF(st = 1, player_id, NULL)) / COUNT(DISTINCT player_id), 2) AS fraction
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
