solution/1100-1199/1193.Monthly Transactions I/README_EN.md, before:

# [1193. Monthly Transactions I](https://leetcode.com/problems/monthly-transactions-i)

[中文文档](/solution/1100-1199/1193.Monthly%20Transactions%20I/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Transactions</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| id            | int     |
| country       | varchar |
| state         | enum    |
| amount        | int     |
| trans_date    | date    |
+---------------+---------+
id is the primary key of this table.
The table has information about incoming transactions.
The state column is an enum of type [&quot;approved&quot;, &quot;declined&quot;].
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write an SQL query to find for each month and country, the number of transactions and their total amount, the number of approved transactions and their total amount.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Transactions table:
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
| id   | country | state    | amount | trans_date |
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
| 121  | US      | approved | 1000   | 2018-12-18 |
| 122  | US      | declined | 2000   | 2018-12-19 |
| 123  | US      | approved | 2000   | 2019-01-01 |
| 124  | DE      | approved | 2000   | 2019-01-07 |
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| month    | country | trans_count | approved_count | trans_total_amount | approved_total_amount |
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 2018-12  | US      | 2           | 1              | 3000               | 1000                  |
| 2019-01  | US      | 1           | 1              | 2000               | 2000                  |
| 2019-01  | DE      | 1           | 1              | 2000               | 2000                  |
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    DATE_FORMAT(trans_date, '%Y-%m') AS month,
    country,
    COUNT(1) AS trans_count,
    SUM(state = 'approved') AS approved_count,
    SUM(amount) AS trans_total_amount,
    SUM(IF(state = 'approved', amount, 0)) AS approved_total_amount
FROM Transactions
GROUP BY 1, 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.1174,1193,1211,1633
* No.1174.Immediate Food Delivery II
* No.1193.Monthly Transactions I
* No.1211.Queries Quality and Percentage
* No.1633.Percentage of Users Attended a Contest

solution/1100-1199/1193.Monthly Transactions I/README_EN.md, after:

# [1193. Monthly Transactions I](https://leetcode.com/problems/monthly-transactions-i)

[中文文档](/solution/1100-1199/1193.Monthly%20Transactions%20I/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Transactions</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| id            | int     |
| country       | varchar |
| state         | enum    |
| amount        | int     |
| trans_date    | date    |
+---------------+---------+
id is the primary key of this table.
The table has information about incoming transactions.
The state column is an enum of type [&quot;approved&quot;, &quot;declined&quot;].
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write an SQL query to find for each month and country, the number of transactions and their total amount, the number of approved transactions and their total amount.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Transactions table:
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
| id   | country | state    | amount | trans_date |
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
| 121  | US      | approved | 1000   | 2018-12-18 |
| 122  | US      | declined | 2000   | 2018-12-19 |
| 123  | US      | approved | 2000   | 2019-01-01 |
| 124  | DE      | approved | 2000   | 2019-01-07 |
+------+---------+----------+--------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| month    | country | trans_count | approved_count | trans_total_amount | approved_total_amount |
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
| 2018-12  | US      | 2           | 1              | 3000               | 1000                  |
| 2019-01  | US      | 1           | 1              | 2000               | 2000                  |
| 2019-01  | DE      | 1           | 1              | 2000               | 2000                  |
+----------+---------+-------------+----------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Grouping and Aggregation**

We can first group by month and country, and then use the `COUNT` and `SUM` functions to respectively calculate the number of transactions, the number of approved transactions, the total amount, and the total amount of approved transactions for each group.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    DATE_FORMAT(trans_date, '%Y-%m') AS month,
    country,
    COUNT(1) AS trans_count,
    SUM(state = 'approved') AS approved_count,
    SUM(amount) AS trans_total_amount,
    SUM(IF(state = 'approved', amount, 0)) AS approved_total_amount
FROM Transactions
GROUP BY 1, 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
