solution/1800-1899/1821.Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year/README_EN.md, before:

# [1821. Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-customers-with-positive-revenue-this-year)

[中文文档](/solution/1800-1899/1821.Find%20Customers%20With%20Positive%20Revenue%20this%20Year/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+------+
| Column Name  | Type |
+--------------+------+
| customer_id  | int  |
| year         | int  |
| revenue      | int  |
+--------------+------+
(customer_id, year) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
This table contains the customer ID and the revenue of customers in different years.
Note that this revenue can be negative.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the customers with <strong>postive revenue</strong> in the year 2021.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+-------------+------+---------+
| customer_id | year | revenue |
+-------------+------+---------+
| 1           | 2018 | 50      |
| 1           | 2021 | 30      |
| 1           | 2020 | 70      |
| 2           | 2021 | -50     |
| 3           | 2018 | 10      |
| 3           | 2016 | 50      |
| 4           | 2021 | 20      |
+-------------+------+---------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+
| customer_id |
+-------------+
| 1           |
| 4           |
+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Customer 1 has revenue equal to 30 in the year 2021.
Customer 2 has revenue equal to -50 in the year 2021.
Customer 3 has no revenue in the year 2021.
Customer 4 has revenue equal to 20 in the year 2021.
Thus only customers 1 and 4 have positive revenue in the year 2021.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    customer_id
FROM Customers
WHERE year = '2021' AND revenue > 0;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update sql solutions to lc problems: No.0183,1821,1873 (#1779)
* No.0183.Customers Who Never Order
* No.1821.Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year
* No.1873.Calculate Special Bonus

solution/1800-1899/1821.Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year/README_EN.md, after:

# [1821. Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-customers-with-positive-revenue-this-year)

[中文文档](/solution/1800-1899/1821.Find%20Customers%20With%20Positive%20Revenue%20this%20Year/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+------+
| Column Name  | Type |
+--------------+------+
| customer_id  | int  |
| year         | int  |
| revenue      | int  |
+--------------+------+
(customer_id, year) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
This table contains the customer ID and the revenue of customers in different years.
Note that this revenue can be negative.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the customers with <strong>postive revenue</strong> in the year 2021.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+-------------+------+---------+
| customer_id | year | revenue |
+-------------+------+---------+
| 1           | 2018 | 50      |
| 1           | 2021 | 30      |
| 1           | 2020 | 70      |
| 2           | 2021 | -50     |
| 3           | 2018 | 10      |
| 3           | 2016 | 50      |
| 4           | 2021 | 20      |
+-------------+------+---------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+
| customer_id |
+-------------+
| 1           |
| 4           |
+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Customer 1 has revenue equal to 30 in the year 2021.
Customer 2 has revenue equal to -50 in the year 2021.
Customer 3 has no revenue in the year 2021.
Customer 4 has revenue equal to 20 in the year 2021.
Thus only customers 1 and 4 have positive revenue in the year 2021.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: WHERE Clause**

We can directly use the `WHERE` clause to filter out the customers whose `year` is `2021` and `revenue` is greater than $0$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    customer_id
FROM Customers
WHERE year = '2021' AND revenue > 0;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
