solution/1600-1699/1607.Sellers With No Sales/README_EN.md, before:

# [1607. Sellers With No Sales](https://leetcode.com/problems/sellers-with-no-sales)

[中文文档](/solution/1600-1699/1607.Sellers%20With%20No%20Sales/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customer</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| customer_id   | int     |
| customer_name | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
customer_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of each customer in the WebStore.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| order_id      | int     |
| sale_date     | date    |
| order_cost    | int     |
| customer_id   | int     |
| seller_id     | int     |
+---------------+---------+
order_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains all orders made in the webstore.
sale_date is the date when the transaction was made between the customer (customer_id) and the seller (seller_id).
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Seller</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| seller_id     | int     |
| seller_name   | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
seller_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of each seller.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the names of all sellers who did not make any sales in <code>2020</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>seller_name</code> in <strong>ascending order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customer table:
+--------------+---------------+
| customer_id  | customer_name |
+--------------+---------------+
| 101          | Alice         |
| 102          | Bob           |
| 103          | Charlie       |
+--------------+---------------+
Orders table:
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| order_id    | sale_date  | order_cost   | customer_id | seller_id   |
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | 2020-03-01 | 1500         | 101         | 1           |
| 2           | 2020-05-25 | 2400         | 102         | 2           |
| 3           | 2019-05-25 | 800          | 101         | 3           |
| 4           | 2020-09-13 | 1000         | 103         | 2           |
| 5           | 2019-02-11 | 700          | 101         | 2           |
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
Seller table:
+-------------+-------------+
| seller_id   | seller_name |
+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | Daniel      |
| 2           | Elizabeth   |
| 3           | Frank       |
+-------------+-------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+
| seller_name |
+-------------+
| Frank       |
+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Daniel made 1 sale in March 2020.
Elizabeth made 2 sales in 2020 and 1 sale in 2019.
Frank made 1 sale in 2019 but no sales in 2020.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    seller_name
FROM
    seller AS s
    LEFT JOIN orders AS o ON s.seller_id = o.seller_id AND year(sale_date) = '2020'
WHERE o.seller_id IS NULL
ORDER BY seller_name;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update sql solutions to lc problems: No.0607,1112,1407,1607 (#1781)
* No.0607.Sales Person
* No.1112.Highest Grade For Each Student
* No.1407.Top Travellers
* No.1607.Sellers With No Sales

solution/1600-1699/1607.Sellers With No Sales/README_EN.md, after:

# [1607. Sellers With No Sales](https://leetcode.com/problems/sellers-with-no-sales)

[中文文档](/solution/1600-1699/1607.Sellers%20With%20No%20Sales/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customer</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| customer_id   | int     |
| customer_name | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
customer_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of each customer in the WebStore.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| order_id      | int     |
| sale_date     | date    |
| order_cost    | int     |
| customer_id   | int     |
| seller_id     | int     |
+---------------+---------+
order_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains all orders made in the webstore.
sale_date is the date when the transaction was made between the customer (customer_id) and the seller (seller_id).
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Seller</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| seller_id     | int     |
| seller_name   | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
seller_id is the column with unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of each seller.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the names of all sellers who did not make any sales in <code>2020</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>seller_name</code> in <strong>ascending order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customer table:
+--------------+---------------+
| customer_id  | customer_name |
+--------------+---------------+
| 101          | Alice         |
| 102          | Bob           |
| 103          | Charlie       |
+--------------+---------------+
Orders table:
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| order_id    | sale_date  | order_cost   | customer_id | seller_id   |
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | 2020-03-01 | 1500         | 101         | 1           |
| 2           | 2020-05-25 | 2400         | 102         | 2           |
| 3           | 2019-05-25 | 800          | 101         | 3           |
| 4           | 2020-09-13 | 1000         | 103         | 2           |
| 5           | 2019-02-11 | 700          | 101         | 2           |
+-------------+------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
Seller table:
+-------------+-------------+
| seller_id   | seller_name |
+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | Daniel      |
| 2           | Elizabeth   |
| 3           | Frank       |
+-------------+-------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+
| seller_name |
+-------------+
| Frank       |
+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Daniel made 1 sale in March 2020.
Elizabeth made 2 sales in 2020 and 1 sale in 2019.
Frank made 1 sale in 2019 but no sales in 2020.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: LEFT JOIN + GROUP BY + FILTER**

We can use a left join to join the `Seller` table with the `Orders` table on the condition `seller_id`, and then group by `seller_id` to count the number of sales for each seller in the year $2020$. Finally, we can filter out the sellers with zero sales.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT seller_name
FROM
    Seller
    LEFT JOIN Orders USING (seller_id)
GROUP BY seller_id
HAVING ifnull(sum(year(sale_date) = 2020), 0) = 0
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
