solution/0100-0199/0183.Customers Who Never Order/README_EN.md, before:

# [183. Customers Who Never Order](https://leetcode.com/problems/customers-who-never-order)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0183.Customers%20Who%20Never%20Order/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| id          | int     |
| name        | varchar |
+-------------+---------+
id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table indicates the ID and name of a customer.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| id          | int  |
| customerId  | int  |
+-------------+------+
id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
customerId is a foreign key (reference columns) of the ID from the Customers table.
Each row of this table indicates the ID of an order and the ID of the customer who ordered it.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find all customers who never order anything.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+----+-------+
| id | name  |
+----+-------+
| 1  | Joe   |
| 2  | Henry |
| 3  | Sam   |
| 4  | Max   |
+----+-------+
Orders table:
+----+------------+
| id | customerId |
+----+------------+
| 1  | 3          |
| 2  | 1          |
+----+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+
| Customers |
+-----------+
| Henry     |
| Max       |
+-----------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name AS Customers
FROM Customers
WHERE
    id NOT IN (
        SELECT customerId
        FROM Orders
    );
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name AS Customers
FROM
    Customers AS c
    LEFT JOIN Orders AS o ON c.id = o.customerId
WHERE o.id IS NULL;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update sql solutions to lc problems: No.0183,1821,1873 (#1779)
* No.0183.Customers Who Never Order
* No.1821.Find Customers With Positive Revenue this Year
* No.1873.Calculate Special Bonus

solution/0100-0199/0183.Customers Who Never Order/README_EN.md, after:

# [183. Customers Who Never Order](https://leetcode.com/problems/customers-who-never-order)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0183.Customers%20Who%20Never%20Order/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| id          | int     |
| name        | varchar |
+-------------+---------+
id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table indicates the ID and name of a customer.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| id          | int  |
| customerId  | int  |
+-------------+------+
id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
customerId is a foreign key (reference columns) of the ID from the Customers table.
Each row of this table indicates the ID of an order and the ID of the customer who ordered it.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find all customers who never order anything.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+----+-------+
| id | name  |
+----+-------+
| 1  | Joe   |
| 2  | Henry |
| 3  | Sam   |
| 4  | Max   |
+----+-------+
Orders table:
+----+------------+
| id | customerId |
+----+------------+
| 1  | 3          |
| 2  | 1          |
+----+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+
| Customers |
+-----------+
| Henry     |
| Max       |
+-----------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: NOT IN**

List all customer IDs of existing orders, and use `NOT IN` to find customers who are not in the list.

**Solution 2: LEFT JOIN**

Use `LEFT JOIN` to join the tables and return the data where `CustomerId` is `NULL`.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name AS Customers
FROM Customers
WHERE
    id NOT IN (
        SELECT customerId
        FROM Orders
    );
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name AS Customers
FROM
    Customers AS c
    LEFT JOIN Orders AS o ON c.id = o.customerId
WHERE o.id IS NULL;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
