solution/0500-0599/0511.Game Play Analysis I/README_EN.md, before:

# [511. Game Play Analysis I](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-i)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0511.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20I/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the <strong>first login date</strong> for each player.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-05-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-------------+
| player_id | first_login |
+-----------+-------------+
| 1         | 2016-03-01  |
| 2         | 2017-06-25  |
| 3         | 2016-03-02  |
+-----------+-------------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT player_id, min(event_date) AS first_login
FROM Activity
GROUP BY player_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems (#1784)
* No.0511.Game Play Analysis I
* No.0586.Customer Placing the Largest Number of Orders
* No.1212.Team Scores in Football Tournament
* No.1440.Evaluate Boolean Expression
* No.1571.Warehouse Manager
* No.1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee
* No.1742.Maximum Number of Balls in a Box
* No.1890.The Latest Login in 2020
* No.2512.Reward Top K Students

solution/0500-0599/0511.Game Play Analysis I/README_EN.md, after:

# [511. Game Play Analysis I](https://leetcode.com/problems/game-play-analysis-i)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0511.Game%20Play%20Analysis%20I/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Activity</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| player_id    | int     |
| device_id    | int     |
| event_date   | date    |
| games_played | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(player_id, event_date) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
This table shows the activity of players of some games.
Each row is a record of a player who logged in and played a number of games (possibly 0) before logging out on someday using some device.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the <strong>first login date</strong> for each player.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Activity table:
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| player_id | device_id | event_date | games_played |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
| 1         | 2         | 2016-03-01 | 5            |
| 1         | 2         | 2016-05-02 | 6            |
| 2         | 3         | 2017-06-25 | 1            |
| 3         | 1         | 2016-03-02 | 0            |
| 3         | 4         | 2018-07-03 | 5            |
+-----------+-----------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-------------+
| player_id | first_login |
+-----------+-------------+
| 1         | 2016-03-01  |
| 2         | 2017-06-25  |
| 3         | 2016-03-02  |
+-----------+-------------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Min Function**

We can use `GROUP BY` to group the `player_id` and then take the minimum `event_date` in each group as the date when the player first logged into the platform.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT player_id, min(event_date) AS first_login
FROM Activity
GROUP BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
