solution/2600-2699/2682.Find the Losers of the Circular Game/README_EN.md, before:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2600-2699/2682.Find%20the%20Losers%20of%20the%20Circular%20Game/README_EN.md
rating: 1382
source: Weekly Contest 345 Q1
tags:
    - Array
    - Hash Table
    - Simulation
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2682. Find the Losers of the Circular Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-losers-of-the-circular-game)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2682.Find%20the%20Losers%20of%20the%20Circular%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>There are <code>n</code> friends that are playing a game. The friends are sitting in a circle and are numbered from <code>1</code> to <code>n</code> in <strong>clockwise order</strong>. More formally, moving clockwise from the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> friend brings you to the <code>(i+1)<sup>th</sup></code> friend for <code>1 &lt;= i &lt; n</code>, and moving clockwise from the <code>n<sup>th</sup></code> friend brings you to the <code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend.</p>

<p>The rules of the game are as follows:</p>

<p><code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend receives the ball.</p>

<ul>
	<li>After that, <code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend passes it to the friend who is <code>k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</li>
	<li>After that, the friend who receives the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>2 * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</li>
	<li>After that, the friend who receives the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>3 * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction, and so on and so forth.</li>
</ul>

<p>In other words, on the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> turn, the friend holding the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>i * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</p>

<p>The game is finished when some friend receives the ball for the second time.</p>

<p>The <strong>losers</strong> of the game are friends who did not receive the ball in the entire game.</p>

<p>Given the number of friends, <code>n</code>, and an integer <code>k</code>, return <em>the array answer, which contains the losers of the game in the <strong>ascending</strong> order</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 5, k = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> [4,5]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The game goes as follows:
1) Start at 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend and pass the ball to the friend who is 2 steps away from them - 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
2) 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend passes the ball to the friend who is 4 steps away from them - 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
3) 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp;friend passes the ball to the friend who is 6 steps away from them  - 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
4) The game ends as 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend receives the ball for the second time.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 4, k = 4
<strong>Output:</strong> [2,3,4]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The game goes as follows:
1) Start at the 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend and pass the ball to the friend who is 4 steps away from them - 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend.
2) The game ends as 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend receives the ball for the second time.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= k &lt;= n &lt;= 50</code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def circularGameLosers(self, n: int, k: int) -> List[int]:
        vis = [False] * n
        i, p = 0, 1
        while not vis[i]:
            vis[i] = True
            i = (i + p * k) % n
            p += 1
        return [i + 1 for i in range(n) if not vis[i]]
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] circularGameLosers(int n, int k) {
        boolean[] vis = new boolean[n];
        int cnt = 0;
        for (int i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; ++p) {
            vis[i] = true;
            ++cnt;
            i = (i + p * k) % n;
        }
        int[] ans = new int[n - cnt];
        for (int i = 0, j = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (!vis[i]) {
                ans[j++] = i + 1;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> circularGameLosers(int n, int k) {
        bool vis[n];
        memset(vis, false, sizeof(vis));
        for (int i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; ++p) {
            vis[i] = true;
            i = (i + p * k) % n;
        }
        vector<int> ans;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (!vis[i]) {
                ans.push_back(i + 1);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func circularGameLosers(n int, k int) (ans []int) {
	vis := make([]bool, n)
	for i, p := 0, 1; !vis[i]; p++ {
		vis[i] = true
		i = (i + p*k) % n
	}
	for i, x := range vis {
		if !x {
			ans = append(ans, i+1)
		}
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function circularGameLosers(n: number, k: number): number[] {
    const vis = new Array(n).fill(false);
    const ans: number[] = [];
    for (let i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; p++) {
        vis[i] = true;
        i = (i + p * k) % n;
    }
    for (let i = 0; i < vis.length; i++) {
        if (!vis[i]) {
            ans.push(i + 1);
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn circular_game_losers(n: i32, k: i32) -> Vec<i32> {
        let mut vis: Vec<bool> = vec![false; n as usize];

        let mut i = 0;
        let mut p = 1;
        while !vis[i] {
            vis[i] = true;
            i = (i + p * (k as usize)) % (n as usize);
            p += 1;
        }

        let mut ans = Vec::new();
        for i in 0..vis.len() {
            if !vis[i] {
                ans.push((i + 1) as i32);
            }
        }

        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.2678~2683

solution/2600-2699/2682.Find the Losers of the Circular Game/README_EN.md, after:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2600-2699/2682.Find%20the%20Losers%20of%20the%20Circular%20Game/README_EN.md
rating: 1382
source: Weekly Contest 345 Q1
tags:
    - Array
    - Hash Table
    - Simulation
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2682. Find the Losers of the Circular Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-losers-of-the-circular-game)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2682.Find%20the%20Losers%20of%20the%20Circular%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>There are <code>n</code> friends that are playing a game. The friends are sitting in a circle and are numbered from <code>1</code> to <code>n</code> in <strong>clockwise order</strong>. More formally, moving clockwise from the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> friend brings you to the <code>(i+1)<sup>th</sup></code> friend for <code>1 &lt;= i &lt; n</code>, and moving clockwise from the <code>n<sup>th</sup></code> friend brings you to the <code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend.</p>

<p>The rules of the game are as follows:</p>

<p><code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend receives the ball.</p>

<ul>
	<li>After that, <code>1<sup>st</sup></code> friend passes it to the friend who is <code>k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</li>
	<li>After that, the friend who receives the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>2 * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</li>
	<li>After that, the friend who receives the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>3 * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction, and so on and so forth.</li>
</ul>

<p>In other words, on the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> turn, the friend holding the ball should pass it to the friend who is <code>i * k</code> steps away from them in the <strong>clockwise</strong> direction.</p>

<p>The game is finished when some friend receives the ball for the second time.</p>

<p>The <strong>losers</strong> of the game are friends who did not receive the ball in the entire game.</p>

<p>Given the number of friends, <code>n</code>, and an integer <code>k</code>, return <em>the array answer, which contains the losers of the game in the <strong>ascending</strong> order</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 5, k = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> [4,5]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The game goes as follows:
1) Start at 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend and pass the ball to the friend who is 2 steps away from them - 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
2) 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend passes the ball to the friend who is 4 steps away from them - 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
3) 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp;friend passes the ball to the friend who is 6 steps away from them  - 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend.
4) The game ends as 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp;friend receives the ball for the second time.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 4, k = 4
<strong>Output:</strong> [2,3,4]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The game goes as follows:
1) Start at the 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend and pass the ball to the friend who is 4 steps away from them - 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend.
2) The game ends as 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp;friend receives the ball for the second time.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= k &lt;= n &lt;= 50</code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Simulation

We use an array `vis` to record whether each friend has received the ball, initially, all friends have not received the ball. Then, we simulate the game process according to the rules described in the problem statement until a friend receives the ball for the second time.

In the simulation process, we use two variables $i$ and $p$ to represent the current friend holding the ball and the current passing step length, respectively. Initially, $i=0, p=1$, indicating the first friend receives the ball. Each time the ball is passed, we update $i$ to $(i+p \times k) \bmod n$, representing the next friend's number to receive the ball, and then update $p$ to $p+1$, representing the step length for the next pass. The game ends when a friend receives the ball for the second time.

Finally, we iterate through the array `vis` and add the numbers of friends who have not received the ball to the answer array.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, and the space complexity is $O(n)$. Here, $n$ is the number of friends.

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def circularGameLosers(self, n: int, k: int) -> List[int]:
        vis = [False] * n
        i, p = 0, 1
        while not vis[i]:
            vis[i] = True
            i = (i + p * k) % n
            p += 1
        return [i + 1 for i in range(n) if not vis[i]]
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] circularGameLosers(int n, int k) {
        boolean[] vis = new boolean[n];
        int cnt = 0;
        for (int i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; ++p) {
            vis[i] = true;
            ++cnt;
            i = (i + p * k) % n;
        }
        int[] ans = new int[n - cnt];
        for (int i = 0, j = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (!vis[i]) {
                ans[j++] = i + 1;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> circularGameLosers(int n, int k) {
        bool vis[n];
        memset(vis, false, sizeof(vis));
        for (int i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; ++p) {
            vis[i] = true;
            i = (i + p * k) % n;
        }
        vector<int> ans;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (!vis[i]) {
                ans.push_back(i + 1);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func circularGameLosers(n int, k int) (ans []int) {
	vis := make([]bool, n)
	for i, p := 0, 1; !vis[i]; p++ {
		vis[i] = true
		i = (i + p*k) % n
	}
	for i, x := range vis {
		if !x {
			ans = append(ans, i+1)
		}
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function circularGameLosers(n: number, k: number): number[] {
    const vis = new Array(n).fill(false);
    const ans: number[] = [];
    for (let i = 0, p = 1; !vis[i]; p++) {
        vis[i] = true;
        i = (i + p * k) % n;
    }
    for (let i = 0; i < vis.length; i++) {
        if (!vis[i]) {
            ans.push(i + 1);
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn circular_game_losers(n: i32, k: i32) -> Vec<i32> {
        let mut vis: Vec<bool> = vec![false; n as usize];

        let mut i = 0;
        let mut p = 1;
        while !vis[i] {
            vis[i] = true;
            i = (i + p * (k as usize)) % (n as usize);
            p += 1;
        }

        let mut ans = Vec::new();
        for i in 0..vis.len() {
            if !vis[i] {
                ans.push((i + 1) as i32);
            }
        }

        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->
