solution/1500-1599/1501.Countries You Can Safely Invest In/README_EN.md, before:

# [1501. Countries You Can Safely Invest In](https://leetcode.com/problems/countries-you-can-safely-invest-in)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1501.Countries%20You%20Can%20Safely%20Invest%20In/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table <code>Person</code>:</p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| id             | int     |
| name           | varchar |
| phone_number   | varchar |
+----------------+---------+
id is the column of unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the name of a person and their phone number.
Phone number will be in the form &#39;xxx-yyyyyyy&#39; where xxx is the country code (3 characters) and yyyyyyy is the phone number (7 characters) where x and y are digits. Both can contain leading zeros.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table <code>Country</code>:</p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| name           | varchar |
| country_code   | varchar |
+----------------+---------+
country_code is the column of unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the country name and its code. country_code will be in the form &#39;xxx&#39; where x is digits.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table <code>Calls</code>:</p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| caller_id   | int  |
| callee_id   | int  |
| duration    | int  |
+-------------+------+
This table may contain duplicate rows.
Each row of this table contains the caller id, callee id and the duration of the call in minutes. caller_id != callee_id
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>A telecommunications company wants to invest in new countries. The company intends to invest in the countries where the average call duration of the calls in this country is strictly greater than the global average call duration.</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the countries where this company can invest.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Person table:
+----+----------+--------------+
| id | name     | phone_number |
+----+----------+--------------+
| 3  | Jonathan | 051-1234567  |
| 12 | Elvis    | 051-7654321  |
| 1  | Moncef   | 212-1234567  |
| 2  | Maroua   | 212-6523651  |
| 7  | Meir     | 972-1234567  |
| 9  | Rachel   | 972-0011100  |
+----+----------+--------------+
Country table:
+----------+--------------+
| name     | country_code |
+----------+--------------+
| Peru     | 051          |
| Israel   | 972          |
| Morocco  | 212          |
| Germany  | 049          |
| Ethiopia | 251          |
+----------+--------------+
Calls table:
+-----------+-----------+----------+
| caller_id | callee_id | duration |
+-----------+-----------+----------+
| 1         | 9         | 33       |
| 2         | 9         | 4        |
| 1         | 2         | 59       |
| 3         | 12        | 102      |
| 3         | 12        | 330      |
| 12        | 3         | 5        |
| 7         | 9         | 13       |
| 7         | 1         | 3        |
| 9         | 7         | 1        |
| 1         | 7         | 7        |
+-----------+-----------+----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------+
| country  |
+----------+
| Peru     |
+----------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The average call duration for Peru is (102 + 102 + 330 + 330 + 5 + 5) / 6 = 145.666667
The average call duration for Israel is (33 + 4 + 13 + 13 + 3 + 1 + 1 + 7) / 8 = 9.37500
The average call duration for Morocco is (33 + 4 + 59 + 59 + 3 + 7) / 6 = 27.5000 
Global call duration average = (2 * (33 + 4 + 59 + 102 + 330 + 5 + 13 + 3 + 1 + 7)) / 20 = 55.70000
Since Peru is the only country where the average call duration is greater than the global average, it is the only recommended country.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
with t as (
    select
        left(phone_number, 3) as country_code,
        avg(duration) as duration
    from
        Person
        join Calls on id in (caller_id, callee_id)
    group by
        country_code
)
select
    c.name country
from
    Country c
    join t on c.country_code = t.country_code
where
    t.duration > (
        select
            avg(duration)
        from
            Calls
    )
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.0603.Consecutive Available Seats
* No.0613.Shortest Distance in a Line
* No.1501.Countries You Can Safely Invest In
* No.1795.Rearrange Products Table

solution/1500-1599/1501.Countries You Can Safely Invest In/README_EN.md, after:

# [1501. Countries You Can Safely Invest In](https://leetcode.com/problems/countries-you-can-safely-invest-in)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1501.Countries%20You%20Can%20Safely%20Invest%20In/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table <code>Person</code>:</p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| id             | int     |
| name           | varchar |
| phone_number   | varchar |
+----------------+---------+
id is the column of unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the name of a person and their phone number.
Phone number will be in the form &#39;xxx-yyyyyyy&#39; where xxx is the country code (3 characters) and yyyyyyy is the phone number (7 characters) where x and y are digits. Both can contain leading zeros.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table <code>Country</code>:</p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| name           | varchar |
| country_code   | varchar |
+----------------+---------+
country_code is the column of unique values for this table.
Each row of this table contains the country name and its code. country_code will be in the form &#39;xxx&#39; where x is digits.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table <code>Calls</code>:</p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| caller_id   | int  |
| callee_id   | int  |
| duration    | int  |
+-------------+------+
This table may contain duplicate rows.
Each row of this table contains the caller id, callee id and the duration of the call in minutes. caller_id != callee_id
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>A telecommunications company wants to invest in new countries. The company intends to invest in the countries where the average call duration of the calls in this country is strictly greater than the global average call duration.</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the countries where this company can invest.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Person table:
+----+----------+--------------+
| id | name     | phone_number |
+----+----------+--------------+
| 3  | Jonathan | 051-1234567  |
| 12 | Elvis    | 051-7654321  |
| 1  | Moncef   | 212-1234567  |
| 2  | Maroua   | 212-6523651  |
| 7  | Meir     | 972-1234567  |
| 9  | Rachel   | 972-0011100  |
+----+----------+--------------+
Country table:
+----------+--------------+
| name     | country_code |
+----------+--------------+
| Peru     | 051          |
| Israel   | 972          |
| Morocco  | 212          |
| Germany  | 049          |
| Ethiopia | 251          |
+----------+--------------+
Calls table:
+-----------+-----------+----------+
| caller_id | callee_id | duration |
+-----------+-----------+----------+
| 1         | 9         | 33       |
| 2         | 9         | 4        |
| 1         | 2         | 59       |
| 3         | 12        | 102      |
| 3         | 12        | 330      |
| 12        | 3         | 5        |
| 7         | 9         | 13       |
| 7         | 1         | 3        |
| 9         | 7         | 1        |
| 1         | 7         | 7        |
+-----------+-----------+----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------+
| country  |
+----------+
| Peru     |
+----------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The average call duration for Peru is (102 + 102 + 330 + 330 + 5 + 5) / 6 = 145.666667
The average call duration for Israel is (33 + 4 + 13 + 13 + 3 + 1 + 1 + 7) / 8 = 9.37500
The average call duration for Morocco is (33 + 4 + 59 + 59 + 3 + 7) / 6 = 27.5000 
Global call duration average = (2 * (33 + 4 + 59 + 102 + 330 + 5 + 13 + 3 + 1 + 7)) / 20 = 55.70000
Since Peru is the only country where the average call duration is greater than the global average, it is the only recommended country.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Equi-Join + Group By + Subquery**

We can use an equi-join to join the `Person` table and the `Calls` table on the condition of `Person.id = Calls.caller_id` or `Person.id = Calls.callee_id`, and then join the result with the `Country` table on the condition of `left(phone_number, 3) = country_code`. After that, we can group by country and calculate the average call duration for each country. Finally, we can use a subquery to find the countries whose average call duration is greater than the global average call duration.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT country
FROM
    (
        SELECT c.name AS country, avg(duration) AS duration
        FROM
            Person
            JOIN Calls ON id IN (caller_id, callee_id)
            JOIN Country AS c ON left(phone_number, 3) = country_code
        GROUP BY 1
    ) AS t
WHERE duration > (SELECT avg(duration) FROM Calls);
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT c.name AS country, avg(duration) AS duration
        FROM
            Person
            JOIN Calls ON id IN (caller_id, callee_id)
            JOIN Country AS c ON left(phone_number, 3) = country_code
        GROUP BY 1
    )
SELECT country
FROM T
WHERE duration > (SELECT avg(duration) FROM Calls);
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
