solution/2600-2699/2639.Find the Width of Columns of a Grid/README_EN.md, before:

# [2639. Find the Width of Columns of a Grid](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-width-of-columns-of-a-grid)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2639.Find%20the%20Width%20of%20Columns%20of%20a%20Grid/README.md)

<!-- tags:Array,Matrix -->

## Description

<p>You are given a <strong>0-indexed</strong> <code>m x n</code> integer matrix <code>grid</code>. The width of a column is the maximum <strong>length </strong>of its integers.</p>

<ul>
	<li>For example, if <code>grid = [[-10], [3], [12]]</code>, the width of the only column is <code>3</code> since <code>-10</code> is of length <code>3</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Return <em>an integer array</em> <code>ans</code> <em>of size</em> <code>n</code> <em>where</em> <code>ans[i]</code> <em>is the width of the</em> <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> <em>column</em>.</p>

<p>The <strong>length</strong> of an integer <code>x</code> with <code>len</code> digits is equal to <code>len</code> if <code>x</code> is non-negative, and <code>len + 1</code> otherwise.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1],[22],[333]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [3]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> In the 0<sup>th</sup> column, 333 is of length 3.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[-15,1,3],[15,7,12],[5,6,-2]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [3,1,2]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
In the 0<sup>th</sup> column, only -15 is of length 3.
In the 1<sup>st</sup> column, all integers are of length 1. 
In the 2<sup>nd</sup> column, both 12 and -2 are of length 2.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>m == grid.length</code></li>
	<li><code>n == grid[i].length</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 100 </code></li>
	<li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= grid[r][c] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def findColumnWidth(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        ans = [0] * len(grid[0])
        for row in grid:
            for j, x in enumerate(row):
                w = len(str(x))
                ans[j] = max(ans[j], w)
        return ans
```

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] findColumnWidth(int[][] grid) {
        int n = grid[0].length;
        int[] ans = new int[n];
        for (var row : grid) {
            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                int w = String.valueOf(row[j]).length();
                ans[j] = Math.max(ans[j], w);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> findColumnWidth(vector<vector<int>>& grid) {
        int n = grid[0].size();
        vector<int> ans(n);
        for (auto& row : grid) {
            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                int w = to_string(row[j]).size();
                ans[j] = max(ans[j], w);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

```go
func findColumnWidth(grid [][]int) []int {
	ans := make([]int, len(grid[0]))
	for _, row := range grid {
		for j, x := range row {
			w := len(strconv.Itoa(x))
			ans[j] = max(ans[j], w)
		}
	}
	return ans
}
```

```ts
function findColumnWidth(grid: number[][]): number[] {
    const n = grid[0].length;
    const ans: number[] = new Array(n).fill(0);
    for (const row of grid) {
        for (let j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
            const w: number = String(row[j]).length;
            ans[j] = Math.max(ans[j], w);
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn find_column_width(grid: Vec<Vec<i32>>) -> Vec<i32> {
        let mut ans = vec![0; grid[0].len()];

        for row in grid.iter() {
            for (j, num) in row.iter().enumerate() {
                let width = num.to_string().len() as i32;
                ans[j] = std::cmp::max(ans[j], width);
            }
        }

        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

### Solution 2

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def findColumnWidth(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        return [max(len(str(x)) for x in col) for col in zip(*grid)]
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.1146,2639
* No.1146.Snapshot Array
* No.2639.Find the Width of Columns of a Grid

solution/2600-2699/2639.Find the Width of Columns of a Grid/README_EN.md, after:

# [2639. Find the Width of Columns of a Grid](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-width-of-columns-of-a-grid)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2639.Find%20the%20Width%20of%20Columns%20of%20a%20Grid/README.md)

<!-- tags:Array,Matrix -->

## Description

<p>You are given a <strong>0-indexed</strong> <code>m x n</code> integer matrix <code>grid</code>. The width of a column is the maximum <strong>length </strong>of its integers.</p>

<ul>
	<li>For example, if <code>grid = [[-10], [3], [12]]</code>, the width of the only column is <code>3</code> since <code>-10</code> is of length <code>3</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Return <em>an integer array</em> <code>ans</code> <em>of size</em> <code>n</code> <em>where</em> <code>ans[i]</code> <em>is the width of the</em> <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> <em>column</em>.</p>

<p>The <strong>length</strong> of an integer <code>x</code> with <code>len</code> digits is equal to <code>len</code> if <code>x</code> is non-negative, and <code>len + 1</code> otherwise.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1],[22],[333]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [3]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> In the 0<sup>th</sup> column, 333 is of length 3.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[-15,1,3],[15,7,12],[5,6,-2]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [3,1,2]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
In the 0<sup>th</sup> column, only -15 is of length 3.
In the 1<sup>st</sup> column, all integers are of length 1. 
In the 2<sup>nd</sup> column, both 12 and -2 are of length 2.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>m == grid.length</code></li>
	<li><code>n == grid[i].length</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 100 </code></li>
	<li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= grid[r][c] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1: Simulation

We denote the number of columns in the matrix as $n$, and create an array $ans$ of length $n$, where $ans[i]$ represents the width of the $i$-th column. Initially, $ans[i] = 0$.

We traverse each row in the matrix. For each element in each row, we calculate its string length $w$, and update the value of $ans[j]$ to be $\max(ans[j], w)$.

After traversing all rows, each element in the array $ans$ is the width of the corresponding column.

The time complexity is $O(m \times n)$, and the space complexity is $O(\log M)$. Where $m$ and $n$ are the number of rows and columns in the matrix respectively, and $M$ is the absolute value of the maximum element in the matrix.

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def findColumnWidth(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        return [max(len(str(x)) for x in col) for col in zip(*grid)]
```

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] findColumnWidth(int[][] grid) {
        int n = grid[0].length;
        int[] ans = new int[n];
        for (var row : grid) {
            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                int w = String.valueOf(row[j]).length();
                ans[j] = Math.max(ans[j], w);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> findColumnWidth(vector<vector<int>>& grid) {
        int n = grid[0].size();
        vector<int> ans(n);
        for (auto& row : grid) {
            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                int w = to_string(row[j]).size();
                ans[j] = max(ans[j], w);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

```go
func findColumnWidth(grid [][]int) []int {
	ans := make([]int, len(grid[0]))
	for _, row := range grid {
		for j, x := range row {
			w := len(strconv.Itoa(x))
			ans[j] = max(ans[j], w)
		}
	}
	return ans
}
```

```ts
function findColumnWidth(grid: number[][]): number[] {
    const n = grid[0].length;
    const ans: number[] = new Array(n).fill(0);
    for (const row of grid) {
        for (let j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
            const w: number = String(row[j]).length;
            ans[j] = Math.max(ans[j], w);
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn find_column_width(grid: Vec<Vec<i32>>) -> Vec<i32> {
        let mut ans = vec![0; grid[0].len()];

        for row in grid.iter() {
            for (j, num) in row.iter().enumerate() {
                let width = num.to_string().len() as i32;
                ans[j] = std::cmp::max(ans[j], width);
            }
        }

        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

### Solution 2

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def findColumnWidth(self, grid: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
        return [max(len(str(x)) for x in col) for col in zip(*grid)]
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->
