solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum/README_EN.md, before:

# [124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/README.md)

## Description

<p>A <strong>path</strong> in a binary tree is a sequence of nodes where each pair of adjacent nodes in the sequence has an edge connecting them. A node can only appear in the sequence <strong>at most once</strong>. Note that the path does not need to pass through the root.</p>

<p>The <strong>path sum</strong> of a path is the sum of the node&#39;s values in the path.</p>

<p>Given the <code>root</code> of a binary tree, return <em>the maximum <strong>path sum</strong> of any <strong>non-empty</strong> path</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/images/exx1.jpg" style="width: 322px; height: 182px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> root = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 6
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The optimal path is 2 -&gt; 1 -&gt; 3 with a path sum of 2 + 1 + 3 = 6.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/images/exx2.jpg" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> root = [-10,9,20,null,null,15,7]
<strong>Output:</strong> 42
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The optimal path is 15 -&gt; 20 -&gt; 7 with a path sum of 15 + 20 + 7 = 42.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes in the tree is in the range <code>[1, 3 * 10<sup>4</sup>]</code>.</li>
	<li><code>-1000 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 1000</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Recursion**

We think about the classic routine of binary tree recursion problem:

1. Termination condition (when to terminate recursion)
2. Recursion processing left and right subtrees
3. Combine the calculation results of the left and right subtrees

For this topic, we design a function $dfs(root)$, which returns the maximum path sum of the binary tree with $root$ as the root node.

The execution logic of the function $dfs(root)$ is as follows:

If $root$ does not exist, then $dfs(root)$ returns $0$;

Otherwise, we recursively calculate the maximum path sum of the left subtree and the right subtree of $root$, denoted as $left$ and $right$, respectively. If $left$ is less than $0$, then we set it to $0$, similarly, if $right$ is less than $0$, then we set it to $0$.

Then, we update the answer with $root.val + left + right$. Finally, the function returns $root.val + \max(left, right)$.

In the main function, we call $dfs(root)$ to get the maximum path sum of each node, and the maximum value in it is the answer.

Time complexity $O(n)$, space complexity $O(n)$. Where $n$ is the number of nodes in the binary tree.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
# Definition for a binary tree node.
# class TreeNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, left=None, right=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.left = left
#         self.right = right
class Solution:
    def maxPathSum(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
        def dfs(root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
            if root is None:
                return 0
            left = max(0, dfs(root.left))
            right = max(0, dfs(root.right))
            nonlocal ans
            ans = max(ans, root.val + left + right)
            return root.val + max(left, right)

        ans = -inf
        dfs(root)
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    private int ans = -1001;

    public int maxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }

    private int dfs(TreeNode root) {
        if (root == null) {
            return 0;
        }
        int left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        int right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, root.val + left + right);
        return root.val + Math.max(left, right);
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * struct TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode *left;
 *     TreeNode *right;
 *     TreeNode() : val(0), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x) : val(x), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x, TreeNode *left, TreeNode *right) : val(x), left(left), right(right) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    int maxPathSum(TreeNode* root) {
        int ans = -1001;
        function<int(TreeNode*)> dfs = [&](TreeNode* root) {
            if (!root) {
                return 0;
            }
            int left = max(0, dfs(root->left));
            int right = max(0, dfs(root->right));
            ans = max(ans, left + right + root->val);
            return root->val + max(left, right);
        };
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * type TreeNode struct {
 *     Val int
 *     Left *TreeNode
 *     Right *TreeNode
 * }
 */
func maxPathSum(root *TreeNode) int {
	ans := -1001
	var dfs func(*TreeNode) int
	dfs = func(root *TreeNode) int {
		if root == nil {
			return 0
		}
		left := max(0, dfs(root.Left))
		right := max(0, dfs(root.Right))
		ans = max(ans, left+right+root.Val)
		return max(left, right) + root.Val
	}
	dfs(root)
	return ans
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * class TreeNode {
 *     val: number
 *     left: TreeNode | null
 *     right: TreeNode | null
 *     constructor(val?: number, left?: TreeNode | null, right?: TreeNode | null) {
 *         this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *         this.left = (left===undefined ? null : left)
 *         this.right = (right===undefined ? null : right)
 *     }
 * }
 */

function maxPathSum(root: TreeNode | null): number {
    let ans = -1001;
    const dfs = (root: TreeNode | null): number => {
        if (!root) {
            return 0;
        }
        const left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        const right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return Math.max(left, right) + root.val;
    };
    dfs(root);
    return ans;
}
```

### **JavaScript**

```js
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * function TreeNode(val, left, right) {
 *     this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *     this.left = (left===undefined ? null : left)
 *     this.right = (right===undefined ? null : right)
 * }
 */
/**
 * @param {TreeNode} root
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxPathSum = function (root) {
    let ans = -1001;
    const dfs = root => {
        if (!root) {
            return 0;
        }
        const left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        const right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return Math.max(left, right) + root.val;
    };
    dfs(root);
    return ans;
};
```

### **C#**

```cs
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     public int val;
 *     public TreeNode left;
 *     public TreeNode right;
 *     public TreeNode(int val=0, TreeNode left=null, TreeNode right=null) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
public class Solution {
    private int ans = -1001;

    public int MaxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }

    private int dfs(TreeNode root) {
        if (root == null) {
            return 0;
        }
        int left = Math.Max(0, dfs(root.left));
        int right = Math.Max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.Max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return root.val + Math.Max(left, right);
    }
}
```

### **Rust**

```rust
// Definition for a binary tree node.
// #[derive(Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
// pub struct TreeNode {
//   pub val: i32,
//   pub left: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>,
//   pub right: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>,
// }
//
// impl TreeNode {
//   #[inline]
//   pub fn new(val: i32) -> Self {
//     TreeNode {
//       val,
//       left: None,
//       right: None
//     }
//   }
// }
use std::rc::Rc;
use std::cell::RefCell;
impl Solution {
    fn dfs(root: &Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>, res: &mut i32) -> i32 {
        if root.is_none() {
            return 0;
        }
        let node = root.as_ref().unwrap().borrow();
        let left = (0).max(Self::dfs(&node.left, res));
        let right = (0).max(Self::dfs(&node.right, res));
        *res = (node.val + left + right).max(*res);
        node.val + left.max(right)
    }

    pub fn max_path_sum(root: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>) -> i32 {
        let mut res = -1000;
        Self::dfs(&root, &mut res);
        res
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems (#2036)

solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum/README_EN.md, after:

# [124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/README.md)

## Description

<p>A <strong>path</strong> in a binary tree is a sequence of nodes where each pair of adjacent nodes in the sequence has an edge connecting them. A node can only appear in the sequence <strong>at most once</strong>. Note that the path does not need to pass through the root.</p>

<p>The <strong>path sum</strong> of a path is the sum of the node&#39;s values in the path.</p>

<p>Given the <code>root</code> of a binary tree, return <em>the maximum <strong>path sum</strong> of any <strong>non-empty</strong> path</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/images/exx1.jpg" style="width: 322px; height: 182px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> root = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 6
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The optimal path is 2 -&gt; 1 -&gt; 3 with a path sum of 2 + 1 + 3 = 6.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0124.Binary%20Tree%20Maximum%20Path%20Sum/images/exx2.jpg" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> root = [-10,9,20,null,null,15,7]
<strong>Output:</strong> 42
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The optimal path is 15 -&gt; 20 -&gt; 7 with a path sum of 15 + 20 + 7 = 42.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes in the tree is in the range <code>[1, 3 * 10<sup>4</sup>]</code>.</li>
	<li><code>-1000 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 1000</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Recursion**

When thinking about the classic routine of recursion problems in binary trees, we consider:

1. Termination condition (when to terminate recursion)
2. Recursively process the left and right subtrees
3. Merge the calculation results of the left and right subtrees

For this problem, we design a function $dfs(root)$, which returns the maximum path sum of the binary tree with $root$ as the root node.

The execution logic of the function $dfs(root)$ is as follows:

If $root$ does not exist, then $dfs(root)$ returns $0$;

Otherwise, we recursively calculate the maximum path sum of the left and right subtrees of $root$, denoted as $left$ and $right$. If $left$ is less than $0$, then we set it to $0$, similarly, if $right$ is less than $0$, then we set it to $0$.

Then, we update the answer with $root.val + left + right$. Finally, the function returns $root.val + \max(left, right)$.

In the main function, we call $dfs(root)$ to get the maximum path sum of each node, and the maximum value among them is the answer.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, and the space complexity is $O(n)$. Here, $n$ is the number of nodes in the binary tree.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
# Definition for a binary tree node.
# class TreeNode:
#     def __init__(self, val=0, left=None, right=None):
#         self.val = val
#         self.left = left
#         self.right = right
class Solution:
    def maxPathSum(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
        def dfs(root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
            if root is None:
                return 0
            left = max(0, dfs(root.left))
            right = max(0, dfs(root.right))
            nonlocal ans
            ans = max(ans, root.val + left + right)
            return root.val + max(left, right)

        ans = -inf
        dfs(root)
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    private int ans = -1001;

    public int maxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }

    private int dfs(TreeNode root) {
        if (root == null) {
            return 0;
        }
        int left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        int right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, root.val + left + right);
        return root.val + Math.max(left, right);
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * struct TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode *left;
 *     TreeNode *right;
 *     TreeNode() : val(0), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x) : val(x), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x, TreeNode *left, TreeNode *right) : val(x), left(left), right(right) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    int maxPathSum(TreeNode* root) {
        int ans = -1001;
        function<int(TreeNode*)> dfs = [&](TreeNode* root) {
            if (!root) {
                return 0;
            }
            int left = max(0, dfs(root->left));
            int right = max(0, dfs(root->right));
            ans = max(ans, left + right + root->val);
            return root->val + max(left, right);
        };
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * type TreeNode struct {
 *     Val int
 *     Left *TreeNode
 *     Right *TreeNode
 * }
 */
func maxPathSum(root *TreeNode) int {
	ans := -1001
	var dfs func(*TreeNode) int
	dfs = func(root *TreeNode) int {
		if root == nil {
			return 0
		}
		left := max(0, dfs(root.Left))
		right := max(0, dfs(root.Right))
		ans = max(ans, left+right+root.Val)
		return max(left, right) + root.Val
	}
	dfs(root)
	return ans
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * class TreeNode {
 *     val: number
 *     left: TreeNode | null
 *     right: TreeNode | null
 *     constructor(val?: number, left?: TreeNode | null, right?: TreeNode | null) {
 *         this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *         this.left = (left===undefined ? null : left)
 *         this.right = (right===undefined ? null : right)
 *     }
 * }
 */

function maxPathSum(root: TreeNode | null): number {
    let ans = -1001;
    const dfs = (root: TreeNode | null): number => {
        if (!root) {
            return 0;
        }
        const left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        const right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return Math.max(left, right) + root.val;
    };
    dfs(root);
    return ans;
}
```

### **JavaScript**

```js
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * function TreeNode(val, left, right) {
 *     this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *     this.left = (left===undefined ? null : left)
 *     this.right = (right===undefined ? null : right)
 * }
 */
/**
 * @param {TreeNode} root
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxPathSum = function (root) {
    let ans = -1001;
    const dfs = root => {
        if (!root) {
            return 0;
        }
        const left = Math.max(0, dfs(root.left));
        const right = Math.max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return Math.max(left, right) + root.val;
    };
    dfs(root);
    return ans;
};
```

### **C#**

```cs
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     public int val;
 *     public TreeNode left;
 *     public TreeNode right;
 *     public TreeNode(int val=0, TreeNode left=null, TreeNode right=null) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
public class Solution {
    private int ans = -1001;

    public int MaxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        dfs(root);
        return ans;
    }

    private int dfs(TreeNode root) {
        if (root == null) {
            return 0;
        }
        int left = Math.Max(0, dfs(root.left));
        int right = Math.Max(0, dfs(root.right));
        ans = Math.Max(ans, left + right + root.val);
        return root.val + Math.Max(left, right);
    }
}
```

### **Rust**

```rust
// Definition for a binary tree node.
// #[derive(Debug, PartialEq, Eq)]
// pub struct TreeNode {
//   pub val: i32,
//   pub left: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>,
//   pub right: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>,
// }
//
// impl TreeNode {
//   #[inline]
//   pub fn new(val: i32) -> Self {
//     TreeNode {
//       val,
//       left: None,
//       right: None
//     }
//   }
// }
use std::rc::Rc;
use std::cell::RefCell;
impl Solution {
    fn dfs(root: &Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>, res: &mut i32) -> i32 {
        if root.is_none() {
            return 0;
        }
        let node = root.as_ref().unwrap().borrow();
        let left = (0).max(Self::dfs(&node.left, res));
        let right = (0).max(Self::dfs(&node.right, res));
        *res = (node.val + left + right).max(*res);
        node.val + left.max(right)
    }

    pub fn max_path_sum(root: Option<Rc<RefCell<TreeNode>>>) -> i32 {
        let mut res = -1000;
        Self::dfs(&root, &mut res);
        res
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->
