solution/1100-1199/1112.Highest Grade For Each Student/README_EN.md, before:

# [1112. Highest Grade For Each Student](https://leetcode.com/problems/highest-grade-for-each-student)

[中文文档](/solution/1100-1199/1112.Highest%20Grade%20For%20Each%20Student/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Enrollments</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| student_id    | int     |
| course_id     | int     |
| grade         | int     |
+---------------+---------+
(student_id, course_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
grade is never NULL.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the highest grade with its corresponding course for each student. In case of a tie, you should find the course with the smallest <code>course_id</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>student_id</code> in <strong>ascending order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Enrollments table:
+------------+-------------------+
| student_id | course_id | grade |
+------------+-----------+-------+
| 2          | 2         | 95    |
| 2          | 3         | 95    |
| 1          | 1         | 90    |
| 1          | 2         | 99    |
| 3          | 1         | 80    |
| 3          | 2         | 75    |
| 3          | 3         | 82    |
+------------+-----------+-------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+-------------------+
| student_id | course_id | grade |
+------------+-----------+-------+
| 1          | 2         | 99    |
| 2          | 2         | 95    |
| 3          | 3         | 82    |
+------------+-----------+-------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            *,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY student_id
                ORDER BY grade DESC, course_id
            ) AS rk
        FROM Enrollments
    )
SELECT student_id, course_id, grade
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1
ORDER BY student_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update sql solutions to lc problems: No.0607,1112,1407,1607
* No.0607.Sales Person
* No.1112.Highest Grade For Each Student
* No.1407.Top Travellers
* No.1607.Sellers With No Sales

solution/1100-1199/1112.Highest Grade For Each Student/README_EN.md, after:

# [1112. Highest Grade For Each Student](https://leetcode.com/problems/highest-grade-for-each-student)

[中文文档](/solution/1100-1199/1112.Highest%20Grade%20For%20Each%20Student/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Enrollments</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| student_id    | int     |
| course_id     | int     |
| grade         | int     |
+---------------+---------+
(student_id, course_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) of this table.
grade is never NULL.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the highest grade with its corresponding course for each student. In case of a tie, you should find the course with the smallest <code>course_id</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>student_id</code> in <strong>ascending order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Enrollments table:
+------------+-------------------+
| student_id | course_id | grade |
+------------+-----------+-------+
| 2          | 2         | 95    |
| 2          | 3         | 95    |
| 1          | 1         | 90    |
| 1          | 2         | 99    |
| 3          | 1         | 80    |
| 3          | 2         | 75    |
| 3          | 3         | 82    |
+------------+-----------+-------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+-------------------+
| student_id | course_id | grade |
+------------+-----------+-------+
| 1          | 2         | 99    |
| 2          | 2         | 95    |
| 3          | 3         | 82    |
+------------+-----------+-------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: RANK() OVER() Window Function**

We can use the `RANK() OVER()` window function to sort the grades of each student in descending order. If the grades are the same, we sort them in ascending order by course number, and then select the record with a rank of $1$ for each student.

**Solution 2: Subquery**

We can first query the highest grade of each student, and then query the minimum course number corresponding to the highest grade of each student.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            *,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY student_id
                ORDER BY grade DESC, course_id
            ) AS rk
        FROM Enrollments
    )
SELECT student_id, course_id, grade
FROM T
WHERE rk = 1
ORDER BY student_id;
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT student_id, min(course_id) AS course_id, grade
FROM Enrollments
WHERE
    (student_id, grade) IN (
        SELECT student_id, max(grade) AS grade
        FROM Enrollments
        GROUP BY 1
    )
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
