solution/0900-0999/0999.Available Captures for Rook/README_EN.md, before:

# [999. Available Captures for Rook](https://leetcode.com/problems/available-captures-for-rook)

[中文文档](/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/README.md)

## Description

<p>On an <code>8 x 8</code> chessboard, there is <strong>exactly one</strong> white rook <code>&#39;R&#39;</code> and some number of white bishops <code>&#39;B&#39;</code>, black pawns <code>&#39;p&#39;</code>, and empty squares <code>&#39;.&#39;</code>.</p>

<p>When the rook moves, it chooses one of four cardinal directions (north, east, south, or west), then moves in that direction until it chooses to stop, reaches the edge of the board, captures a black pawn, or is blocked by a white bishop. A rook is considered <strong>attacking</strong> a pawn if the rook can capture the pawn on the rook&#39;s turn. The <strong>number of available captures</strong> for the white rook is the number of pawns that the rook is <strong>attacking</strong>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>number of available captures</strong> for the white rook</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_1_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 305px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> In this example, the rook is attacking all the pawns.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_2_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 306px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The bishops are blocking the rook from attacking any of the pawns.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_3_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 305px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The rook is attacking the pawns at positions b5, d6, and f5.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>board.length == 8</code></li>
	<li><code>board[i].length == 8</code></li>
	<li><code>board[i][j]</code> is either <code>&#39;R&#39;</code>, <code>&#39;.&#39;</code>, <code>&#39;B&#39;</code>, or <code>&#39;p&#39;</code></li>
	<li>There is exactly one cell with <code>board[i][j] == &#39;R&#39;</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def numRookCaptures(self, board: List[List[str]]) -> int:
        ans = 0
        dirs = (-1, 0, 1, 0, -1)
        for i in range(8):
            for j in range(8):
                if board[i][j] == "R":
                    for a, b in pairwise(dirs):
                        x, y = i, j
                        while 0 <= x + a < 8 and 0 <= y + b < 8:
                            x, y = x + a, y + b
                            if board[x][y] == "p":
                                ans += 1
                                break
                            if board[x][y] == "B":
                                break
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public int numRookCaptures(char[][] board) {
        int ans = 0;
        int[] dirs = {-1, 0, 1, 0, -1};
        for (int i = 0; i < 8; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < 8; ++j) {
                if (board[i][j] == 'R') {
                    for (int k = 0; k < 4; ++k) {
                        int x = i, y = j;
                        int a = dirs[k], b = dirs[k + 1];
                        while (x + a >= 0 && x + a < 8 && y + b >= 0 && y + b < 8
                            && board[x + a][y + b] != 'B') {
                            x += a;
                            y += b;
                            if (board[x][y] == 'p') {
                                ++ans;
                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int numRookCaptures(vector<vector<char>>& board) {
        int ans = 0;
        int dirs[5] = {-1, 0, 1, 0, -1};
        for (int i = 0; i < 8; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < 8; ++j) {
                if (board[i][j] == 'R') {
                    for (int k = 0; k < 4; ++k) {
                        int x = i, y = j;
                        int a = dirs[k], b = dirs[k + 1];
                        while (x + a >= 0 && x + a < 8 && y + b >= 0 && y + b < 8 && board[x + a][y + b] != 'B') {
                            x += a;
                            y += b;
                            if (board[x][y] == 'p') {
                                ++ans;
                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
func numRookCaptures(board [][]byte) (ans int) {
	dirs := [5]int{-1, 0, 1, 0, -1}
	for i := 0; i < 8; i++ {
		for j := 0; j < 8; j++ {
			if board[i][j] == 'R' {
				for k := 0; k < 4; k++ {
					x, y := i, j
					a, b := dirs[k], dirs[k+1]
					for x+a >= 0 && x+a < 8 && y+b >= 0 && y+b < 8 && board[x+a][y+b] != 'B' {
						x, y = x+a, y+b
						if board[x][y] == 'p' {
							ans++
							break
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
	return
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.0995~0999
* No.0995.Minimum Number of K Consecutive Bit Flips
* No.0997.Find the Town Judge
* No.0998.Maximum Binary Tree II
* No.0999.Available Captures for Rook

solution/0900-0999/0999.Available Captures for Rook/README_EN.md, after:

# [999. Available Captures for Rook](https://leetcode.com/problems/available-captures-for-rook)

[中文文档](/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/README.md)

## Description

<p>On an <code>8 x 8</code> chessboard, there is <strong>exactly one</strong> white rook <code>&#39;R&#39;</code> and some number of white bishops <code>&#39;B&#39;</code>, black pawns <code>&#39;p&#39;</code>, and empty squares <code>&#39;.&#39;</code>.</p>

<p>When the rook moves, it chooses one of four cardinal directions (north, east, south, or west), then moves in that direction until it chooses to stop, reaches the edge of the board, captures a black pawn, or is blocked by a white bishop. A rook is considered <strong>attacking</strong> a pawn if the rook can capture the pawn on the rook&#39;s turn. The <strong>number of available captures</strong> for the white rook is the number of pawns that the rook is <strong>attacking</strong>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>number of available captures</strong> for the white rook</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_1_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 305px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> In this example, the rook is attacking all the pawns.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_2_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 306px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The bishops are blocking the rook from attacking any of the pawns.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0900-0999/0999.Available%20Captures%20for%20Rook/images/1253_example_3_improved.png" style="width: 300px; height: 305px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> board = [[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;p&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;R&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;B&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;p&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;],[&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;,&quot;.&quot;]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The rook is attacking the pawns at positions b5, d6, and f5.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>board.length == 8</code></li>
	<li><code>board[i].length == 8</code></li>
	<li><code>board[i][j]</code> is either <code>&#39;R&#39;</code>, <code>&#39;.&#39;</code>, <code>&#39;B&#39;</code>, or <code>&#39;p&#39;</code></li>
	<li>There is exactly one cell with <code>board[i][j] == &#39;R&#39;</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Simulation**

First, we traverse the chessboard to find the position of the rook $(x, y)$. Then, starting from $(x, y)$, we traverse in four directions: up, down, left, and right:

-   If we encounter a bishop or a boundary, we stop traversing in that direction.
-   If we encounter a pawn, we increment the answer by one, and then stop traversing in that direction.
-   Otherwise, we continue traversing.

After traversing in all four directions, we can get the answer.

The time complexity is $O(m \times n)$, where $m$ and $n$ are the number of rows and columns of the chessboard, respectively. In this problem, $m = n = 8$. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def numRookCaptures(self, board: List[List[str]]) -> int:
        ans = 0
        dirs = (-1, 0, 1, 0, -1)
        for i in range(8):
            for j in range(8):
                if board[i][j] == "R":
                    for a, b in pairwise(dirs):
                        x, y = i, j
                        while 0 <= x + a < 8 and 0 <= y + b < 8:
                            x, y = x + a, y + b
                            if board[x][y] == "p":
                                ans += 1
                                break
                            if board[x][y] == "B":
                                break
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public int numRookCaptures(char[][] board) {
        int ans = 0;
        int[] dirs = {-1, 0, 1, 0, -1};
        for (int i = 0; i < 8; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < 8; ++j) {
                if (board[i][j] == 'R') {
                    for (int k = 0; k < 4; ++k) {
                        int x = i, y = j;
                        int a = dirs[k], b = dirs[k + 1];
                        while (x + a >= 0 && x + a < 8 && y + b >= 0 && y + b < 8
                            && board[x + a][y + b] != 'B') {
                            x += a;
                            y += b;
                            if (board[x][y] == 'p') {
                                ++ans;
                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int numRookCaptures(vector<vector<char>>& board) {
        int ans = 0;
        int dirs[5] = {-1, 0, 1, 0, -1};
        for (int i = 0; i < 8; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < 8; ++j) {
                if (board[i][j] == 'R') {
                    for (int k = 0; k < 4; ++k) {
                        int x = i, y = j;
                        int a = dirs[k], b = dirs[k + 1];
                        while (x + a >= 0 && x + a < 8 && y + b >= 0 && y + b < 8 && board[x + a][y + b] != 'B') {
                            x += a;
                            y += b;
                            if (board[x][y] == 'p') {
                                ++ans;
                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
func numRookCaptures(board [][]byte) (ans int) {
	dirs := [5]int{-1, 0, 1, 0, -1}
	for i := 0; i < 8; i++ {
		for j := 0; j < 8; j++ {
			if board[i][j] == 'R' {
				for k := 0; k < 4; k++ {
					x, y := i, j
					a, b := dirs[k], dirs[k+1]
					for x+a >= 0 && x+a < 8 && y+b >= 0 && y+b < 8 && board[x+a][y+b] != 'B' {
						x, y = x+a, y+b
						if board[x][y] == 'p' {
							ans++
							break
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
	return
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->
