solution/0700-0799/0724.Find Pivot Index/README_EN.md, before:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/0700-0799/0724.Find%20Pivot%20Index/README_EN.md
tags:
    - Array
    - Prefix Sum
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [724. Find Pivot Index](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-pivot-index)

[中文文档](/solution/0700-0799/0724.Find%20Pivot%20Index/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>Given an array of integers <code>nums</code>, calculate the <strong>pivot index</strong> of this array.</p>

<p>The <strong>pivot index</strong> is the index where the sum of all the numbers <strong>strictly</strong> to the left of the index is equal to the sum of all the numbers <strong>strictly</strong> to the index&#39;s right.</p>

<p>If the index is on the left edge of the array, then the left sum is <code>0</code> because there are no elements to the left. This also applies to the right edge of the array.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>leftmost pivot index</strong></em>. If no such index exists, return <code>-1</code>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,7,3,6,5,6]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
The pivot index is 3.
Left sum = nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + 7 + 3 = 11
Right sum = nums[4] + nums[5] = 5 + 6 = 11
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> -1
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
There is no index that satisfies the conditions in the problem statement.</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,1,-1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
The pivot index is 0.
Left sum = 0 (no elements to the left of index 0)
Right sum = nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + -1 = 0
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>-1000 &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 1000</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This question is the same as&nbsp;1991:&nbsp;<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-middle-index-in-array/" target="_blank">https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-middle-index-in-array/</a></p>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def pivotIndex(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        left, right = 0, sum(nums)
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            right -= x
            if left == right:
                return i
            left += x
        return -1
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int pivotIndex(int[] nums) {
        int left = 0, right = Arrays.stream(nums).sum();
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
            right -= nums[i];
            if (left == right) {
                return i;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        return -1;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int pivotIndex(vector<int>& nums) {
        int left = 0, right = accumulate(nums.begin(), nums.end(), 0);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            right -= nums[i];
            if (left == right) {
                return i;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        return -1;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func pivotIndex(nums []int) int {
	var left, right int
	for _, x := range nums {
		right += x
	}
	for i, x := range nums {
		right -= x
		if left == right {
			return i
		}
		left += x
	}
	return -1
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function pivotIndex(nums: number[]): number {
    let left = 0,
        right = nums.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        right -= nums[i];
        if (left == right) {
            return i;
        }
        left += nums[i];
    }
    return -1;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn pivot_index(nums: Vec<i32>) -> i32 {
        let (mut left, mut right): (i32, i32) = (0, nums.iter().sum());
        for i in 0..nums.len() {
            right -= nums[i];
            if left == right {
                return i as i32;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        -1
    }
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number}
 */
var pivotIndex = function (nums) {
    let left = 0,
        right = nums.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        right -= nums[i];
        if (left == right) {
            return i;
        }
        left += nums[i];
    }
    return -1;
};
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.3210~3212
* No.3210.Find the Encrypted String
* No.3211.Generate Binary Strings Without Adjacent Zeros
* No.3212.Count Submatrices With Equal Frequency of X and Y

solution/0700-0799/0724.Find Pivot Index/README_EN.md, after:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/0700-0799/0724.Find%20Pivot%20Index/README_EN.md
tags:
    - Array
    - Prefix Sum
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [724. Find Pivot Index](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-pivot-index)

[中文文档](/solution/0700-0799/0724.Find%20Pivot%20Index/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>Given an array of integers <code>nums</code>, calculate the <strong>pivot index</strong> of this array.</p>

<p>The <strong>pivot index</strong> is the index where the sum of all the numbers <strong>strictly</strong> to the left of the index is equal to the sum of all the numbers <strong>strictly</strong> to the index&#39;s right.</p>

<p>If the index is on the left edge of the array, then the left sum is <code>0</code> because there are no elements to the left. This also applies to the right edge of the array.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>leftmost pivot index</strong></em>. If no such index exists, return <code>-1</code>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,7,3,6,5,6]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
The pivot index is 3.
Left sum = nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + 7 + 3 = 11
Right sum = nums[4] + nums[5] = 5 + 6 = 11
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> -1
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
There is no index that satisfies the conditions in the problem statement.</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,1,-1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 0
<strong>Explanation:</strong>
The pivot index is 0.
Left sum = 0 (no elements to the left of index 0)
Right sum = nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + -1 = 0
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>-1000 &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 1000</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This question is the same as&nbsp;1991:&nbsp;<a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-middle-index-in-array/" target="_blank">https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-middle-index-in-array/</a></p>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Prefix Sum

We define a variable $left$ to represent the sum of elements to the left of index $i$ in the array $\textit{nums}$, and a variable $right$ to represent the sum of elements to the right of index $i$ in the array $\textit{nums}$. Initially, $left = 0$, $right = \sum_{i = 0}^{n - 1} nums[i]$.

We traverse the array $\textit{nums}$. For the current number $x$ being traversed, we update $right = right - x$. At this point, if $left = right$, it indicates that the current index $i$ is the middle position, and we can return it directly. Otherwise, we update $left = left + x$ and continue to traverse the next number.

If the middle position is not found by the end of the traversal, return $-1$.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, and the space complexity is $O(1)$. Here, $n$ is the length of the array $\textit{nums}$.

Similar Problems:

-   [1991. Find the Middle Index in Array](https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/blob/main/solution/1900-1999/1991.Find%20the%20Middle%20Index%20in%20Array/README_EN.md)
-   [2574. Left and Right Sum Differences](https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/blob/main/solution/2500-2599/2574.Left%20and%20Right%20Sum%20Differences/README_EN.md)

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def pivotIndex(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        left, right = 0, sum(nums)
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            right -= x
            if left == right:
                return i
            left += x
        return -1
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int pivotIndex(int[] nums) {
        int left = 0, right = Arrays.stream(nums).sum();
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
            right -= nums[i];
            if (left == right) {
                return i;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        return -1;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int pivotIndex(vector<int>& nums) {
        int left = 0, right = accumulate(nums.begin(), nums.end(), 0);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            right -= nums[i];
            if (left == right) {
                return i;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        return -1;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func pivotIndex(nums []int) int {
	var left, right int
	for _, x := range nums {
		right += x
	}
	for i, x := range nums {
		right -= x
		if left == right {
			return i
		}
		left += x
	}
	return -1
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function pivotIndex(nums: number[]): number {
    let left = 0,
        right = nums.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        right -= nums[i];
        if (left == right) {
            return i;
        }
        left += nums[i];
    }
    return -1;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn pivot_index(nums: Vec<i32>) -> i32 {
        let (mut left, mut right): (i32, i32) = (0, nums.iter().sum());
        for i in 0..nums.len() {
            right -= nums[i];
            if left == right {
                return i as i32;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        -1
    }
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number}
 */
var pivotIndex = function (nums) {
    let left = 0,
        right = nums.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        right -= nums[i];
        if (left == right) {
            return i;
        }
        left += nums[i];
    }
    return -1;
};
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->
