solution/2900-2999/2987.Find Expensive Cities/README_EN.md, before:

# [2987. Find Expensive Cities](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-expensive-cities)

[中文文档](/solution/2900-2999/2987.Find%20Expensive%20Cities/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Listings</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| listing_id  | int     |
| city        | varchar |
| price       | int     |
+-------------+---------+
listing_id is column of unique values for this table.
This table contains listing_id, city, and price.
</pre>

<p>Write a solution to find <strong>cities </strong>where the <strong>average home prices</strong> exceed the <strong>national</strong> average home price.</p>

<p>Return <em>the result table sorted by </em><code>city</code><em> in <strong>ascending</strong> order</em><em>.</em></p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Listings table:
+------------+--------------+---------+
| listing_id | city         | price   | 
+------------+--------------+---------+
| 113        | LosAngeles   | 7560386 | 
| 136        | SanFrancisco | 2380268 |     
| 92         | Chicago      | 9833209 | 
| 60         | Chicago      | 5147582 | 
| 8          | Chicago      | 5274441 |  
| 79         | SanFrancisco | 8372065 | 
| 37         | Chicago      | 7939595 | 
| 53         | LosAngeles   | 4965123 | 
| 178        | SanFrancisco | 999207  | 
| 51         | NewYork      | 5951718 | 
| 121        | NewYork      | 2893760 | 
+------------+--------------+---------+
<strong>Output</strong>
+------------+
| city       | 
+------------+
| Chicago    | 
| LosAngeles |  
+------------+
<strong>Explanation</strong>
The national average home price is $6,122,059.45. Among the cities listed:
- Chicago has an average price of $7,043,706.75
- Los Angeles has an average price of $6,277,754.5
- San Francisco has an average price of $3,900,513.33
- New York has an average price of $4,422,739
Only Chicago and Los Angeles have average home prices exceeding the national average. Therefore, these two cities are included in the output table. The output table is sorted in ascending order based on the city names.

</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT city
FROM Listings
GROUP BY city
HAVING AVG(price) > (SELECT AVG(price) FROM Listings)
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems (#2178)
* No.2487.Remove Nodes From Linked List
* No.2806.Account Balance After Rounded Purchase
* No.2807.Insert Greatest Common Divisors in Linked List
* No.2808.Minimum Seconds to Equalize a Circular Array
* No.2809.Minimum Time to Make Array Sum At Most x
* No.2810.Faulty Keyboard
* No.2811.Check if it is Possible to Split Array
* No.2985.Calculate Compressed Mean
* No.2987.Find Expensive Cities
* No.2988.Manager of the Largest Department

solution/2900-2999/2987.Find Expensive Cities/README_EN.md, after:

# [2987. Find Expensive Cities](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-expensive-cities)

[中文文档](/solution/2900-2999/2987.Find%20Expensive%20Cities/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Listings</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| listing_id  | int     |
| city        | varchar |
| price       | int     |
+-------------+---------+
listing_id is column of unique values for this table.
This table contains listing_id, city, and price.
</pre>

<p>Write a solution to find <strong>cities </strong>where the <strong>average home prices</strong> exceed the <strong>national</strong> average home price.</p>

<p>Return <em>the result table sorted by </em><code>city</code><em> in <strong>ascending</strong> order</em><em>.</em></p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Listings table:
+------------+--------------+---------+
| listing_id | city         | price   | 
+------------+--------------+---------+
| 113        | LosAngeles   | 7560386 | 
| 136        | SanFrancisco | 2380268 |     
| 92         | Chicago      | 9833209 | 
| 60         | Chicago      | 5147582 | 
| 8          | Chicago      | 5274441 |  
| 79         | SanFrancisco | 8372065 | 
| 37         | Chicago      | 7939595 | 
| 53         | LosAngeles   | 4965123 | 
| 178        | SanFrancisco | 999207  | 
| 51         | NewYork      | 5951718 | 
| 121        | NewYork      | 2893760 | 
+------------+--------------+---------+
<strong>Output</strong>
+------------+
| city       | 
+------------+
| Chicago    | 
| LosAngeles |  
+------------+
<strong>Explanation</strong>
The national average home price is $6,122,059.45. Among the cities listed:
- Chicago has an average price of $7,043,706.75
- Los Angeles has an average price of $6,277,754.5
- San Francisco has an average price of $3,900,513.33
- New York has an average price of $4,422,739
Only Chicago and Los Angeles have average home prices exceeding the national average. Therefore, these two cities are included in the output table. The output table is sorted in ascending order based on the city names.

</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Grouping Aggregation + Subquery**

We group the `Listings` table by `city`, then calculate the average house price for each city, and finally filter out the cities where the average house price is greater than the national average house price.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT city
FROM Listings
GROUP BY city
HAVING AVG(price) > (SELECT AVG(price) FROM Listings)
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
