solution/1200-1299/1280.Students and Examinations/README_EN.md, before:

# [1280. Students and Examinations](https://leetcode.com/problems/students-and-examinations)

[中文文档](/solution/1200-1299/1280.Students%20and%20Examinations/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Students</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| student_id    | int     |
| student_name  | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
student_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the ID and the name of one student in the school.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Subjects</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| subject_name | varchar |
+--------------+---------+
subject_name is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the name of one subject in the school.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Examinations</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| student_id   | int     |
| subject_name | varchar |
+--------------+---------+
There is no primary key (column with unique values) for this table. It may contain duplicates.
Each student from the Students table takes every course from the Subjects table.
Each row of this table indicates that a student with ID student_id attended the exam of subject_name.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the number of times each student attended each exam.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>student_id</code> and <code>subject_name</code>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Students table:
+------------+--------------+
| student_id | student_name |
+------------+--------------+
| 1          | Alice        |
| 2          | Bob          |
| 13         | John         |
| 6          | Alex         |
+------------+--------------+
Subjects table:
+--------------+
| subject_name |
+--------------+
| Math         |
| Physics      |
| Programming  |
+--------------+
Examinations table:
+------------+--------------+
| student_id | subject_name |
+------------+--------------+
| 1          | Math         |
| 1          | Physics      |
| 1          | Programming  |
| 2          | Programming  |
| 1          | Physics      |
| 1          | Math         |
| 13         | Math         |
| 13         | Programming  |
| 13         | Physics      |
| 2          | Math         |
| 1          | Math         |
+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
| student_id | student_name | subject_name | attended_exams |
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
| 1          | Alice        | Math         | 3              |
| 1          | Alice        | Physics      | 2              |
| 1          | Alice        | Programming  | 1              |
| 2          | Bob          | Math         | 1              |
| 2          | Bob          | Physics      | 0              |
| 2          | Bob          | Programming  | 1              |
| 6          | Alex         | Math         | 0              |
| 6          | Alex         | Physics      | 0              |
| 6          | Alex         | Programming  | 0              |
| 13         | John         | Math         | 1              |
| 13         | John         | Physics      | 1              |
| 13         | John         | Programming  | 1              |
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The result table should contain all students and all subjects.
Alice attended the Math exam 3 times, the Physics exam 2 times, and the Programming exam 1 time.
Bob attended the Math exam 1 time, the Programming exam 1 time, and did not attend the Physics exam.
Alex did not attend any exams.
John attended the Math exam 1 time, the Physics exam 1 time, and the Programming exam 1 time.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    a.student_id,
    student_name,
    b.subject_name,
    COUNT(c.subject_name) AS attended_exams
FROM
    Students AS a
    CROSS JOIN Subjects AS b
    LEFT JOIN Examinations AS c ON a.student_id = c.student_id AND b.subject_name = c.subject_name
GROUP BY a.student_id, b.subject_name
ORDER BY a.student_id, b.subject_name;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.0570,0620,1251,1280,1934 (#1834)
* No.0570.Managers with at Least 5 Direct Reports
* No.0620.Not Boring Movies
* No.1251.Average Selling Price
* No.1280.Students and Examinations
* No.1934.Confirmation Rate

solution/1200-1299/1280.Students and Examinations/README_EN.md, after:

# [1280. Students and Examinations](https://leetcode.com/problems/students-and-examinations)

[中文文档](/solution/1200-1299/1280.Students%20and%20Examinations/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Students</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| student_id    | int     |
| student_name  | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
student_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the ID and the name of one student in the school.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Subjects</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| subject_name | varchar |
+--------------+---------+
subject_name is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the name of one subject in the school.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Examinations</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| student_id   | int     |
| subject_name | varchar |
+--------------+---------+
There is no primary key (column with unique values) for this table. It may contain duplicates.
Each student from the Students table takes every course from the Subjects table.
Each row of this table indicates that a student with ID student_id attended the exam of subject_name.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the number of times each student attended each exam.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>student_id</code> and <code>subject_name</code>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Students table:
+------------+--------------+
| student_id | student_name |
+------------+--------------+
| 1          | Alice        |
| 2          | Bob          |
| 13         | John         |
| 6          | Alex         |
+------------+--------------+
Subjects table:
+--------------+
| subject_name |
+--------------+
| Math         |
| Physics      |
| Programming  |
+--------------+
Examinations table:
+------------+--------------+
| student_id | subject_name |
+------------+--------------+
| 1          | Math         |
| 1          | Physics      |
| 1          | Programming  |
| 2          | Programming  |
| 1          | Physics      |
| 1          | Math         |
| 13         | Math         |
| 13         | Programming  |
| 13         | Physics      |
| 2          | Math         |
| 1          | Math         |
+------------+--------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
| student_id | student_name | subject_name | attended_exams |
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
| 1          | Alice        | Math         | 3              |
| 1          | Alice        | Physics      | 2              |
| 1          | Alice        | Programming  | 1              |
| 2          | Bob          | Math         | 1              |
| 2          | Bob          | Physics      | 0              |
| 2          | Bob          | Programming  | 1              |
| 6          | Alex         | Math         | 0              |
| 6          | Alex         | Physics      | 0              |
| 6          | Alex         | Programming  | 0              |
| 13         | John         | Math         | 1              |
| 13         | John         | Physics      | 1              |
| 13         | John         | Programming  | 1              |
+------------+--------------+--------------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The result table should contain all students and all subjects.
Alice attended the Math exam 3 times, the Physics exam 2 times, and the Programming exam 1 time.
Bob attended the Math exam 1 time, the Programming exam 1 time, and did not attend the Physics exam.
Alex did not attend any exams.
John attended the Math exam 1 time, the Physics exam 1 time, and the Programming exam 1 time.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Two Joins + Grouping**

We can first join the `Students` table and the `Subjects` table to obtain all combinations of students and subjects, and then join the `Examinations` table with the condition of `student_id` and `subject_name`. This way, we can get the number of times each student has taken each subject's test. Finally, we can group by `student_id` and `subject_name` to count the number of times each student has taken each subject's test.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT student_id, student_name, subject_name, COUNT(e.student_id) AS attended_exams
FROM
    Students
    JOIN Subjects
    LEFT JOIN Examinations AS e USING (student_id, subject_name)
GROUP BY 1, 3
ORDER BY 1, 3;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
