solution/1500-1599/1596.The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer/README_EN.md, before:

# [1596. The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-most-frequently-ordered-products-for-each-customer)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1596.The%20Most%20Frequently%20Ordered%20Products%20for%20Each%20Customer/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| customer_id   | int     |
| name          | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
customer_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the customers.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| order_id      | int     |
| order_date    | date    |
| customer_id   | int     |
| product_id    | int     |
+---------------+---------+
order_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the orders made by customer_id.
No customer will order the same product <strong>more than once</strong> in a single day.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Products</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| product_id    | int     |
| product_name  | varchar |
| price         | int     |
+---------------+---------+
product_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the products.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the most frequently ordered product(s) for each customer.</p>

<p>The result table should have the <code>product_id</code> and <code>product_name</code> for each <code>customer_id</code> who ordered at least one order.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+-------------+-------+
| customer_id | name  |
+-------------+-------+
| 1           | Alice |
| 2           | Bob   |
| 3           | Tom   |
| 4           | Jerry |
| 5           | John  |
+-------------+-------+
Orders table:
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
| order_id | order_date | customer_id | product_id |
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
| 1        | 2020-07-31 | 1           | 1          |
| 2        | 2020-07-30 | 2           | 2          |
| 3        | 2020-08-29 | 3           | 3          |
| 4        | 2020-07-29 | 4           | 1          |
| 5        | 2020-06-10 | 1           | 2          |
| 6        | 2020-08-01 | 2           | 1          |
| 7        | 2020-08-01 | 3           | 3          |
| 8        | 2020-08-03 | 1           | 2          |
| 9        | 2020-08-07 | 2           | 3          |
| 10       | 2020-07-15 | 1           | 2          |
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
Products table:
+------------+--------------+-------+
| product_id | product_name | price |
+------------+--------------+-------+
| 1          | keyboard     | 120   |
| 2          | mouse        | 80    |
| 3          | screen       | 600   |
| 4          | hard disk    | 450   |
+------------+--------------+-------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+------------+--------------+
| customer_id | product_id | product_name |
+-------------+------------+--------------+
| 1           | 2          | mouse        |
| 2           | 1          | keyboard     |
| 2           | 2          | mouse        |
| 2           | 3          | screen       |
| 3           | 3          | screen       |
| 4           | 1          | keyboard     |
+-------------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Alice (customer 1) ordered the mouse three times and the keyboard one time, so the mouse is the most frequently ordered product for them.
Bob (customer 2) ordered the keyboard, the mouse, and the screen one time, so those are the most frequently ordered products for them.
Tom (customer 3) only ordered the screen (two times), so that is the most frequently ordered product for them.
Jerry (customer 4) only ordered the keyboard (one time), so that is the most frequently ordered product for them.
John (customer 5) did not order anything, so we do not include them in the result table.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    customer_id,
    p.product_id,
    p.product_name
FROM
    (
        SELECT
            customer_id,
            product_id,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY customer_id
                ORDER BY count(1) DESC
            ) AS rk
        FROM Orders
        GROUP BY customer_id, product_id
    ) AS o
    JOIN Products AS p ON o.product_id = p.product_id
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.1225.Report Contiguous Dates
* No.1270.All People Report to the Given Manager
* No.1412.Find the Quiet Students in All Exams
* No.1596.The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer
* No.1709.Biggest Window Between Visits
* No.1767.Find the Subtasks That Did Not Execute

solution/1500-1599/1596.The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer/README_EN.md, after:

# [1596. The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-most-frequently-ordered-products-for-each-customer)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1596.The%20Most%20Frequently%20Ordered%20Products%20for%20Each%20Customer/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customers</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| customer_id   | int     |
| name          | varchar |
+---------------+---------+
customer_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the customers.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Orders</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| order_id      | int     |
| order_date    | date    |
| customer_id   | int     |
| product_id    | int     |
+---------------+---------+
order_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the orders made by customer_id.
No customer will order the same product <strong>more than once</strong> in a single day.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Products</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| product_id    | int     |
| product_name  | varchar |
| price         | int     |
+---------------+---------+
product_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the products.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the most frequently ordered product(s) for each customer.</p>

<p>The result table should have the <code>product_id</code> and <code>product_name</code> for each <code>customer_id</code> who ordered at least one order.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customers table:
+-------------+-------+
| customer_id | name  |
+-------------+-------+
| 1           | Alice |
| 2           | Bob   |
| 3           | Tom   |
| 4           | Jerry |
| 5           | John  |
+-------------+-------+
Orders table:
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
| order_id | order_date | customer_id | product_id |
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
| 1        | 2020-07-31 | 1           | 1          |
| 2        | 2020-07-30 | 2           | 2          |
| 3        | 2020-08-29 | 3           | 3          |
| 4        | 2020-07-29 | 4           | 1          |
| 5        | 2020-06-10 | 1           | 2          |
| 6        | 2020-08-01 | 2           | 1          |
| 7        | 2020-08-01 | 3           | 3          |
| 8        | 2020-08-03 | 1           | 2          |
| 9        | 2020-08-07 | 2           | 3          |
| 10       | 2020-07-15 | 1           | 2          |
+----------+------------+-------------+------------+
Products table:
+------------+--------------+-------+
| product_id | product_name | price |
+------------+--------------+-------+
| 1          | keyboard     | 120   |
| 2          | mouse        | 80    |
| 3          | screen       | 600   |
| 4          | hard disk    | 450   |
+------------+--------------+-------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+------------+--------------+
| customer_id | product_id | product_name |
+-------------+------------+--------------+
| 1           | 2          | mouse        |
| 2           | 1          | keyboard     |
| 2           | 2          | mouse        |
| 2           | 3          | screen       |
| 3           | 3          | screen       |
| 4           | 1          | keyboard     |
+-------------+------------+--------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Alice (customer 1) ordered the mouse three times and the keyboard one time, so the mouse is the most frequently ordered product for them.
Bob (customer 2) ordered the keyboard, the mouse, and the screen one time, so those are the most frequently ordered products for them.
Tom (customer 3) only ordered the screen (two times), so that is the most frequently ordered product for them.
Jerry (customer 4) only ordered the keyboard (one time), so that is the most frequently ordered product for them.
John (customer 5) did not order anything, so we do not include them in the result table.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Window Function**

We group the `Orders` table by `customer_id` and `product_id`, and then use the window function `rank()`, which assigns a rank to each `product_id` in each `customer_id` group based on its frequency in descending order. Finally, we select the `product_id` with a rank of $1$ for each `customer_id`, which is the most frequently ordered product for that `customer_id`.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            customer_id,
            product_id,
            rank() OVER (
                PARTITION BY customer_id
                ORDER BY count(1) DESC
            ) AS rk
        FROM Orders
        GROUP BY 1, 2
    )
SELECT customer_id, product_id, product_name
FROM
    T
    JOIN Products USING (product_id)
WHERE rk = 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
