solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest Cycle in a Graph/README_EN.md, before:

# [2360. Longest Cycle in a Graph](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-cycle-in-a-graph)

[中文文档](/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/README.md)

<!-- tags:Depth-First Search,Graph,Topological Sort -->

## Description

<p>You are given a <strong>directed</strong> graph of <code>n</code> nodes numbered from <code>0</code> to <code>n - 1</code>, where each node has <strong>at most one</strong> outgoing edge.</p>

<p>The graph is represented with a given <strong>0-indexed</strong> array <code>edges</code> of size <code>n</code>, indicating that there is a directed edge from node <code>i</code> to node <code>edges[i]</code>. If there is no outgoing edge from node <code>i</code>, then <code>edges[i] == -1</code>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the length of the <strong>longest</strong> cycle in the graph</em>. If no cycle exists, return <code>-1</code>.</p>

<p>A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the <strong>same</strong> node.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/images/graph4drawio-5.png" style="width: 335px; height: 191px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> edges = [3,3,4,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The longest cycle in the graph is the cycle: 2 -&gt; 4 -&gt; 3 -&gt; 2.
The length of this cycle is 3, so 3 is returned.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/images/graph4drawio-1.png" style="width: 171px; height: 161px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> edges = [2,-1,3,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> -1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are no cycles in this graph.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>n == edges.length</code></li>
	<li><code>2 &lt;= n &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>-1 &lt;= edges[i] &lt; n</code></li>
	<li><code>edges[i] != i</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def longestCycle(self, edges: List[int]) -> int:
        n = len(edges)
        vis = [False] * n
        ans = -1
        for i in range(n):
            if vis[i]:
                continue
            j = i
            cycle = []
            while j != -1 and not vis[j]:
                vis[j] = True
                cycle.append(j)
                j = edges[j]
            if j == -1:
                continue
            m = len(cycle)
            k = next((k for k in range(m) if cycle[k] == j), inf)
            ans = max(ans, m - k)
        return ans
```

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestCycle(int[] edges) {
        int n = edges.length;
        boolean[] vis = new boolean[n];
        int ans = -1;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (vis[i]) {
                continue;
            }
            int j = i;
            List<Integer> cycle = new ArrayList<>();
            for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
                vis[j] = true;
                cycle.add(j);
            }
            if (j == -1) {
                continue;
            }
            for (int k = 0; k < cycle.size(); ++k) {
                if (cycle.get(k) == j) {
                    ans = Math.max(ans, cycle.size() - k);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int longestCycle(vector<int>& edges) {
        int n = edges.size();
        vector<bool> vis(n);
        int ans = -1;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (vis[i]) {
                continue;
            }
            int j = i;
            vector<int> cycle;
            for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
                vis[j] = true;
                cycle.push_back(j);
            }
            if (j == -1) {
                continue;
            }
            for (int k = 0; k < cycle.size(); ++k) {
                if (cycle[k] == j) {
                    ans = max(ans, (int) cycle.size() - k);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

```go
func longestCycle(edges []int) int {
	vis := make([]bool, len(edges))
	ans := -1
	for i := range edges {
		if vis[i] {
			continue
		}
		j := i
		cycle := []int{}
		for ; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j] {
			vis[j] = true
			cycle = append(cycle, j)
		}
		if j == -1 {
			continue
		}
		for k := range cycle {
			if cycle[k] == j {
				ans = max(ans, len(cycle)-k)
				break
			}
		}
	}
	return ans
}
```

```ts
function longestCycle(edges: number[]): number {
    const n = edges.length;
    const vis = new Array(n).fill(false);
    let ans = -1;
    for (let i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
        if (vis[i]) {
            continue;
        }
        let j = i;
        const cycle: number[] = [];
        for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
            vis[j] = true;
            cycle.push(j);
        }
        if (j == -1) {
            continue;
        }
        for (let k = 0; k < cycle.length; ++k) {
            if (cycle[k] == j) {
                ans = Math.max(ans, cycle.length - k);
                break;
            }
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.2360~2367 (#2403)

solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest Cycle in a Graph/README_EN.md, after:

# [2360. Longest Cycle in a Graph](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-cycle-in-a-graph)

[中文文档](/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/README.md)

<!-- tags:Depth-First Search,Graph,Topological Sort -->

## Description

<p>You are given a <strong>directed</strong> graph of <code>n</code> nodes numbered from <code>0</code> to <code>n - 1</code>, where each node has <strong>at most one</strong> outgoing edge.</p>

<p>The graph is represented with a given <strong>0-indexed</strong> array <code>edges</code> of size <code>n</code>, indicating that there is a directed edge from node <code>i</code> to node <code>edges[i]</code>. If there is no outgoing edge from node <code>i</code>, then <code>edges[i] == -1</code>.</p>

<p>Return <em>the length of the <strong>longest</strong> cycle in the graph</em>. If no cycle exists, return <code>-1</code>.</p>

<p>A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the <strong>same</strong> node.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/images/graph4drawio-5.png" style="width: 335px; height: 191px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> edges = [3,3,4,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The longest cycle in the graph is the cycle: 2 -&gt; 4 -&gt; 3 -&gt; 2.
The length of this cycle is 3, so 3 is returned.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2300-2399/2360.Longest%20Cycle%20in%20a%20Graph/images/graph4drawio-1.png" style="width: 171px; height: 161px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> edges = [2,-1,3,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> -1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are no cycles in this graph.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>n == edges.length</code></li>
	<li><code>2 &lt;= n &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>-1 &lt;= edges[i] &lt; n</code></li>
	<li><code>edges[i] != i</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1: Traverse Starting Points

We can traverse each node in the range $[0,..,n-1]$. If a node has not been visited, we start from this node and search for adjacent nodes until we encounter a cycle or a node that has already been visited. If we encounter a cycle, we update the answer.

The time complexity is $O(n)$ and the space complexity is $O(n)$, where $n$ is the number of nodes.

Similar problems:

-   [2127. Maximum Employees to Be Invited to a Meeting](https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/blob/main/solution/2100-2199/2127.Maximum%20Employees%20to%20Be%20Invited%20to%20a%20Meeting/README.md)

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def longestCycle(self, edges: List[int]) -> int:
        n = len(edges)
        vis = [False] * n
        ans = -1
        for i in range(n):
            if vis[i]:
                continue
            j = i
            cycle = []
            while j != -1 and not vis[j]:
                vis[j] = True
                cycle.append(j)
                j = edges[j]
            if j == -1:
                continue
            m = len(cycle)
            k = next((k for k in range(m) if cycle[k] == j), inf)
            ans = max(ans, m - k)
        return ans
```

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestCycle(int[] edges) {
        int n = edges.length;
        boolean[] vis = new boolean[n];
        int ans = -1;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (vis[i]) {
                continue;
            }
            int j = i;
            List<Integer> cycle = new ArrayList<>();
            for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
                vis[j] = true;
                cycle.add(j);
            }
            if (j == -1) {
                continue;
            }
            for (int k = 0; k < cycle.size(); ++k) {
                if (cycle.get(k) == j) {
                    ans = Math.max(ans, cycle.size() - k);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int longestCycle(vector<int>& edges) {
        int n = edges.size();
        vector<bool> vis(n);
        int ans = -1;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (vis[i]) {
                continue;
            }
            int j = i;
            vector<int> cycle;
            for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
                vis[j] = true;
                cycle.push_back(j);
            }
            if (j == -1) {
                continue;
            }
            for (int k = 0; k < cycle.size(); ++k) {
                if (cycle[k] == j) {
                    ans = max(ans, (int) cycle.size() - k);
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

```go
func longestCycle(edges []int) int {
	vis := make([]bool, len(edges))
	ans := -1
	for i := range edges {
		if vis[i] {
			continue
		}
		j := i
		cycle := []int{}
		for ; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j] {
			vis[j] = true
			cycle = append(cycle, j)
		}
		if j == -1 {
			continue
		}
		for k := range cycle {
			if cycle[k] == j {
				ans = max(ans, len(cycle)-k)
				break
			}
		}
	}
	return ans
}
```

```ts
function longestCycle(edges: number[]): number {
    const n = edges.length;
    const vis = new Array(n).fill(false);
    let ans = -1;
    for (let i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
        if (vis[i]) {
            continue;
        }
        let j = i;
        const cycle: number[] = [];
        for (; j != -1 && !vis[j]; j = edges[j]) {
            vis[j] = true;
            cycle.push(j);
        }
        if (j == -1) {
            continue;
        }
        for (let k = 0; k < cycle.length; ++k) {
            if (cycle[k] == j) {
                ans = Math.max(ans, cycle.length - k);
                break;
            }
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->
