solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection of Two Linked Lists/README_EN.md, before:

# [160. Intersection of Two Linked Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/intersection-of-two-linked-lists)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/README.md)

<!-- tags:Hash Table,Linked List,Two Pointers -->

## Description

<p>Given the heads of two singly linked-lists <code>headA</code> and <code>headB</code>, return <em>the node at which the two lists intersect</em>. If the two linked lists have no intersection at all, return <code>null</code>.</p>

<p>For example, the following two linked lists begin to intersect at node <code>c1</code>:</p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_statement.png" style="width: 500px; height: 162px;" />
<p>The test cases are generated such that there are no cycles anywhere in the entire linked structure.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong> that the linked lists must <strong>retain their original structure</strong> after the function returns.</p>

<p><strong>Custom Judge:</strong></p>

<p>The inputs to the <strong>judge</strong> are given as follows (your program is <strong>not</strong> given these inputs):</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>intersectVal</code> - The value of the node where the intersection occurs. This is <code>0</code> if there is no intersected node.</li>
	<li><code>listA</code> - The first linked list.</li>
	<li><code>listB</code> - The second linked list.</li>
	<li><code>skipA</code> - The number of nodes to skip ahead in <code>listA</code> (starting from the head) to get to the intersected node.</li>
	<li><code>skipB</code> - The number of nodes to skip ahead in <code>listB</code> (starting from the head) to get to the intersected node.</li>
</ul>

<p>The judge will then create the linked structure based on these inputs and pass the two heads, <code>headA</code> and <code>headB</code> to your program. If you correctly return the intersected node, then your solution will be <strong>accepted</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_1_1.png" style="width: 500px; height: 162px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 8, listA = [4,1,8,4,5], listB = [5,6,1,8,4,5], skipA = 2, skipB = 3
<strong>Output:</strong> Intersected at &#39;8&#39;
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The intersected node&#39;s value is 8 (note that this must not be 0 if the two lists intersect).
From the head of A, it reads as [4,1,8,4,5]. From the head of B, it reads as [5,6,1,8,4,5]. There are 2 nodes before the intersected node in A; There are 3 nodes before the intersected node in B.
- Note that the intersected node&#39;s value is not 1 because the nodes with value 1 in A and B (2<sup>nd</sup> node in A and 3<sup>rd</sup> node in B) are different node references. In other words, they point to two different locations in memory, while the nodes with value 8 in A and B (3<sup>rd</sup> node in A and 4<sup>th</sup> node in B) point to the same location in memory.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_2.png" style="width: 500px; height: 194px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 2, listA = [1,9,1,2,4], listB = [3,2,4], skipA = 3, skipB = 1
<strong>Output:</strong> Intersected at &#39;2&#39;
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The intersected node&#39;s value is 2 (note that this must not be 0 if the two lists intersect).
From the head of A, it reads as [1,9,1,2,4]. From the head of B, it reads as [3,2,4]. There are 3 nodes before the intersected node in A; There are 1 node before the intersected node in B.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_3.png" style="width: 300px; height: 189px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 0, listA = [2,6,4], listB = [1,5], skipA = 3, skipB = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> No intersection
<strong>Explanation:</strong> From the head of A, it reads as [2,6,4]. From the head of B, it reads as [1,5]. Since the two lists do not intersect, intersectVal must be 0, while skipA and skipB can be arbitrary values.
Explanation: The two lists do not intersect, so return null.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes of <code>listA</code> is in the <code>m</code>.</li>
	<li>The number of nodes of <code>listB</code> is in the <code>n</code>.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 3 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= skipA &lt;&nbsp;m</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= skipB &lt;&nbsp;n</code></li>
	<li><code>intersectVal</code> is <code>0</code> if <code>listA</code> and <code>listB</code> do not intersect.</li>
	<li><code>intersectVal == listA[skipA] == listB[skipB]</code> if <code>listA</code> and <code>listB</code> intersect.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow up:</strong> Could you write a solution that runs in <code>O(m + n)</code> time and use only <code>O(1)</code> memory?

## Solutions

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, x):
#         self.val = x
#         self.next = None


class Solution:
    def getIntersectionNode(self, headA: ListNode, headB: ListNode) -> ListNode:
        a, b = headA, headB
        while a != b:
            a = a.next if a else headB
            b = b.next if b else headA
        return a
```

```java
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode next;
 *     ListNode(int x) {
 *         val = x;
 *         next = null;
 *     }
 * }
 */
public class Solution {
    public ListNode getIntersectionNode(ListNode headA, ListNode headB) {
        ListNode a = headA, b = headB;
        while (a != b) {
            a = a == null ? headB : a.next;
            b = b == null ? headA : b.next;
        }
        return a;
    }
}
```

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(NULL) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* getIntersectionNode(ListNode* headA, ListNode* headB) {
        ListNode *a = headA, *b = headB;
        while (a != b) {
            a = a ? a->next : headB;
            b = b ? b->next : headA;
        }
        return a;
    }
};
```

```go
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * type ListNode struct {
 *     Val int
 *     Next *ListNode
 * }
 */
func getIntersectionNode(headA, headB *ListNode) *ListNode {
	a, b := headA, headB
	for a != b {
		if a == nil {
			a = headB
		} else {
			a = a.Next
		}
		if b == nil {
			b = headA
		} else {
			b = b.Next
		}
	}
	return a
}
```

```ts
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * class ListNode {
 *     val: number
 *     next: ListNode | null
 *     constructor(val?: number, next?: ListNode | null) {
 *         this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *         this.next = (next===undefined ? null : next)
 *     }
 * }
 */

function getIntersectionNode(headA: ListNode | null, headB: ListNode | null): ListNode | null {
    let a = headA;
    let b = headB;
    while (a != b) {
        a = a ? a.next : headB;
        b = b ? b.next : headA;
    }
    return a;
}
```

```js
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * function ListNode(val) {
 *     this.val = val;
 *     this.next = null;
 * }
 */

/**
 * @param {ListNode} headA
 * @param {ListNode} headB
 * @return {ListNode}
 */
var getIntersectionNode = function (headA, headB) {
    let a = headA;
    let b = headB;
    while (a != b) {
        a = a ? a.next : headB;
        b = b ? b.next : headA;
    }
    return a;
};
```

```swift
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     public var val: Int
 *     public var next: ListNode?
 *     public init(_ val: Int) {
 *         self.val = val
 *         self.next = nil
 *     }
 * }
 */

class Solution {
    func getIntersectionNode(_ headA: ListNode?, _ headB: ListNode?) -> ListNode? {
        var a = headA
        var b = headB
        while a !== b {
            a = a == nil ? headB : a?.next
            b = b == nil ? headA : b?.next
        }
        return a
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lcci problem: No.02.07 (#2529)
No.02.07.Intersection of Two Linked Lists

solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection of Two Linked Lists/README_EN.md, after:

# [160. Intersection of Two Linked Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/intersection-of-two-linked-lists)

[中文文档](/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/README.md)

<!-- tags:Hash Table,Linked List,Two Pointers -->

## Description

<p>Given the heads of two singly linked-lists <code>headA</code> and <code>headB</code>, return <em>the node at which the two lists intersect</em>. If the two linked lists have no intersection at all, return <code>null</code>.</p>

<p>For example, the following two linked lists begin to intersect at node <code>c1</code>:</p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_statement.png" style="width: 500px; height: 162px;" />
<p>The test cases are generated such that there are no cycles anywhere in the entire linked structure.</p>

<p><strong>Note</strong> that the linked lists must <strong>retain their original structure</strong> after the function returns.</p>

<p><strong>Custom Judge:</strong></p>

<p>The inputs to the <strong>judge</strong> are given as follows (your program is <strong>not</strong> given these inputs):</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>intersectVal</code> - The value of the node where the intersection occurs. This is <code>0</code> if there is no intersected node.</li>
	<li><code>listA</code> - The first linked list.</li>
	<li><code>listB</code> - The second linked list.</li>
	<li><code>skipA</code> - The number of nodes to skip ahead in <code>listA</code> (starting from the head) to get to the intersected node.</li>
	<li><code>skipB</code> - The number of nodes to skip ahead in <code>listB</code> (starting from the head) to get to the intersected node.</li>
</ul>

<p>The judge will then create the linked structure based on these inputs and pass the two heads, <code>headA</code> and <code>headB</code> to your program. If you correctly return the intersected node, then your solution will be <strong>accepted</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_1_1.png" style="width: 500px; height: 162px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 8, listA = [4,1,8,4,5], listB = [5,6,1,8,4,5], skipA = 2, skipB = 3
<strong>Output:</strong> Intersected at &#39;8&#39;
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The intersected node&#39;s value is 8 (note that this must not be 0 if the two lists intersect).
From the head of A, it reads as [4,1,8,4,5]. From the head of B, it reads as [5,6,1,8,4,5]. There are 2 nodes before the intersected node in A; There are 3 nodes before the intersected node in B.
- Note that the intersected node&#39;s value is not 1 because the nodes with value 1 in A and B (2<sup>nd</sup> node in A and 3<sup>rd</sup> node in B) are different node references. In other words, they point to two different locations in memory, while the nodes with value 8 in A and B (3<sup>rd</sup> node in A and 4<sup>th</sup> node in B) point to the same location in memory.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_2.png" style="width: 500px; height: 194px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 2, listA = [1,9,1,2,4], listB = [3,2,4], skipA = 3, skipB = 1
<strong>Output:</strong> Intersected at &#39;2&#39;
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The intersected node&#39;s value is 2 (note that this must not be 0 if the two lists intersect).
From the head of A, it reads as [1,9,1,2,4]. From the head of B, it reads as [3,2,4]. There are 3 nodes before the intersected node in A; There are 1 node before the intersected node in B.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/0100-0199/0160.Intersection%20of%20Two%20Linked%20Lists/images/160_example_3.png" style="width: 300px; height: 189px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> intersectVal = 0, listA = [2,6,4], listB = [1,5], skipA = 3, skipB = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> No intersection
<strong>Explanation:</strong> From the head of A, it reads as [2,6,4]. From the head of B, it reads as [1,5]. Since the two lists do not intersect, intersectVal must be 0, while skipA and skipB can be arbitrary values.
Explanation: The two lists do not intersect, so return null.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes of <code>listA</code> is in the <code>m</code>.</li>
	<li>The number of nodes of <code>listB</code> is in the <code>n</code>.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 3 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= skipA &lt;&nbsp;m</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= skipB &lt;&nbsp;n</code></li>
	<li><code>intersectVal</code> is <code>0</code> if <code>listA</code> and <code>listB</code> do not intersect.</li>
	<li><code>intersectVal == listA[skipA] == listB[skipB]</code> if <code>listA</code> and <code>listB</code> intersect.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow up:</strong> Could you write a solution that runs in <code>O(m + n)</code> time and use only <code>O(1)</code> memory?

## Solutions

### Solution 1: Two Pointers

We use two pointers $a$ and $b$ to point to two linked lists $headA$ and $headB$ respectively.

We traverse the linked lists simultaneously. When $a$ reaches the end of the linked list $headA$, it is repositioned to the head node of the linked list $headB$. When $b$ reaches the end of the linked list $headB$, it is repositioned to the head node of the linked list $headA$.

If the two pointers meet, the node they point to is the first common node. If they don't meet, it means that the two linked lists have no common nodes. At this time, both pointers point to `null`, and we can return either one.

The time complexity is $O(m+n)$, where $m$ and $n$ are the lengths of the linked lists $headA$ and $headB$ respectively. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
# Definition for singly-linked list.
# class ListNode:
#     def __init__(self, x):
#         self.val = x
#         self.next = None


class Solution:
    def getIntersectionNode(self, headA: ListNode, headB: ListNode) -> ListNode:
        a, b = headA, headB
        while a != b:
            a = a.next if a else headB
            b = b.next if b else headA
        return a
```

```java
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode next;
 *     ListNode(int x) {
 *         val = x;
 *         next = null;
 *     }
 * }
 */
public class Solution {
    public ListNode getIntersectionNode(ListNode headA, ListNode headB) {
        ListNode a = headA, b = headB;
        while (a != b) {
            a = a == null ? headB : a.next;
            b = b == null ? headA : b.next;
        }
        return a;
    }
}
```

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(NULL) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* getIntersectionNode(ListNode* headA, ListNode* headB) {
        ListNode *a = headA, *b = headB;
        while (a != b) {
            a = a ? a->next : headB;
            b = b ? b->next : headA;
        }
        return a;
    }
};
```

```go
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * type ListNode struct {
 *     Val int
 *     Next *ListNode
 * }
 */
func getIntersectionNode(headA, headB *ListNode) *ListNode {
	a, b := headA, headB
	for a != b {
		if a == nil {
			a = headB
		} else {
			a = a.Next
		}
		if b == nil {
			b = headA
		} else {
			b = b.Next
		}
	}
	return a
}
```

```ts
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * class ListNode {
 *     val: number
 *     next: ListNode | null
 *     constructor(val?: number, next?: ListNode | null) {
 *         this.val = (val===undefined ? 0 : val)
 *         this.next = (next===undefined ? null : next)
 *     }
 * }
 */

function getIntersectionNode(headA: ListNode | null, headB: ListNode | null): ListNode | null {
    let a = headA;
    let b = headB;
    while (a != b) {
        a = a ? a.next : headB;
        b = b ? b.next : headA;
    }
    return a;
}
```

```js
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * function ListNode(val) {
 *     this.val = val;
 *     this.next = null;
 * }
 */

/**
 * @param {ListNode} headA
 * @param {ListNode} headB
 * @return {ListNode}
 */
var getIntersectionNode = function (headA, headB) {
    let a = headA;
    let b = headB;
    while (a != b) {
        a = a ? a.next : headB;
        b = b ? b.next : headA;
    }
    return a;
};
```

```swift
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * public class ListNode {
 *     public var val: Int
 *     public var next: ListNode?
 *     public init(_ val: Int) {
 *         self.val = val
 *         self.next = nil
 *     }
 * }
 */

class Solution {
    func getIntersectionNode(_ headA: ListNode?, _ headB: ListNode?) -> ListNode? {
        var a = headA
        var b = headB
        while a !== b {
            a = a == nil ? headB : a?.next
            b = b == nil ? headA : b?.next
        }
        return a
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->
