solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum Cost of Buying Candies With Discount/README_EN.md, before:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum%20Cost%20of%20Buying%20Candies%20With%20Discount/README_EN.md
rating: 1260
source: Biweekly Contest 70 Q1
tags:
    - Greedy
    - Array
    - Sorting
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2144. Minimum Cost of Buying Candies With Discount](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-of-buying-candies-with-discount)

[中文文档](/solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum%20Cost%20of%20Buying%20Candies%20With%20Discount/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>A shop is selling candies at a discount. For <strong>every two</strong> candies sold, the shop gives a <strong>third</strong> candy for <strong>free</strong>.</p>

<p>The customer can choose <strong>any</strong> candy to take away for free as long as the cost of the chosen candy is less than or equal to the <strong>minimum</strong> cost of the two candies bought.</p>

<ul>
	<li>For example, if there are <code>4</code> candies with costs <code>1</code>, <code>2</code>, <code>3</code>, and <code>4</code>, and the customer buys candies with costs <code>2</code> and <code>3</code>, they&nbsp;can take the candy with cost <code>1</code> for free, but not the candy with cost <code>4</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Given a <strong>0-indexed</strong> integer array <code>cost</code>, where <code>cost[i]</code> denotes the cost of the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> candy, return <em>the <strong>minimum cost</strong> of buying <strong>all</strong> the candies</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> We buy the candies with costs 2 and 3, and take the candy with cost 1 for free.
The total cost of buying all candies is 2 + 3 = 5. This is the <strong>only</strong> way we can buy the candies.
Note that we cannot buy candies with costs 1 and 3, and then take the candy with cost 2 for free.
The cost of the free candy has to be less than or equal to the minimum cost of the purchased candies.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [6,5,7,9,2,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> 23
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The way in which we can get the minimum cost is described below:
- Buy candies with costs 9 and 7
- Take the candy with cost 6 for free
- We buy candies with costs 5 and 2
- Take the last remaining candy with cost 2 for free
Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 9 + 7 + 5 + 2 = 23.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [5,5]
<strong>Output:</strong> 10
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Since there are only 2 candies, we buy both of them. There is not a third candy we can take for free.
Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 5 + 5 = 10.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= cost.length &lt;= 100</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= cost[i] &lt;= 100</code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumCost(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        cost.sort(reverse=True)
        return sum(cost) - sum(cost[2::3])
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int minimumCost(int[] cost) {
        Arrays.sort(cost);
        int ans = 0;
        for (int i = cost.length - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3) {
            ans += cost[i];
            if (i > 0) {
                ans += cost[i - 1];
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minimumCost(vector<int>& cost) {
        sort(cost.rbegin(), cost.rend());
        int ans = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < cost.size(); i += 3) {
            ans += cost[i];
            if (i < cost.size() - 1) {
                ans += cost[i + 1];
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func minimumCost(cost []int) (ans int) {
	sort.Ints(cost)
	for i := len(cost) - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3 {
		ans += cost[i]
		if i > 0 {
			ans += cost[i-1]
		}
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function minimumCost(cost: number[]): number {
    cost.sort((a, b) => a - b);
    let ans = 0;
    for (let i = cost.length - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3) {
        ans += cost[i];
        if (i) {
            ans += cost[i - 1];
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.2138,2140,2141 (#3158)
* No.2138.Divide a String Into Groups of Size k
* No.2140.Solving Questions With Brainpower
* No.2141.Maximum Running Time of N Computers

solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum Cost of Buying Candies With Discount/README_EN.md, after:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Easy
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum%20Cost%20of%20Buying%20Candies%20With%20Discount/README_EN.md
rating: 1260
source: Biweekly Contest 70 Q1
tags:
    - Greedy
    - Array
    - Sorting
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2144. Minimum Cost of Buying Candies With Discount](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-cost-of-buying-candies-with-discount)

[中文文档](/solution/2100-2199/2144.Minimum%20Cost%20of%20Buying%20Candies%20With%20Discount/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>A shop is selling candies at a discount. For <strong>every two</strong> candies sold, the shop gives a <strong>third</strong> candy for <strong>free</strong>.</p>

<p>The customer can choose <strong>any</strong> candy to take away for free as long as the cost of the chosen candy is less than or equal to the <strong>minimum</strong> cost of the two candies bought.</p>

<ul>
	<li>For example, if there are <code>4</code> candies with costs <code>1</code>, <code>2</code>, <code>3</code>, and <code>4</code>, and the customer buys candies with costs <code>2</code> and <code>3</code>, they&nbsp;can take the candy with cost <code>1</code> for free, but not the candy with cost <code>4</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Given a <strong>0-indexed</strong> integer array <code>cost</code>, where <code>cost[i]</code> denotes the cost of the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> candy, return <em>the <strong>minimum cost</strong> of buying <strong>all</strong> the candies</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 5
<strong>Explanation:</strong> We buy the candies with costs 2 and 3, and take the candy with cost 1 for free.
The total cost of buying all candies is 2 + 3 = 5. This is the <strong>only</strong> way we can buy the candies.
Note that we cannot buy candies with costs 1 and 3, and then take the candy with cost 2 for free.
The cost of the free candy has to be less than or equal to the minimum cost of the purchased candies.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [6,5,7,9,2,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> 23
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The way in which we can get the minimum cost is described below:
- Buy candies with costs 9 and 7
- Take the candy with cost 6 for free
- We buy candies with costs 5 and 2
- Take the last remaining candy with cost 2 for free
Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 9 + 7 + 5 + 2 = 23.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> cost = [5,5]
<strong>Output:</strong> 10
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Since there are only 2 candies, we buy both of them. There is not a third candy we can take for free.
Hence, the minimum cost to buy all candies is 5 + 5 = 10.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= cost.length &lt;= 100</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= cost[i] &lt;= 100</code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Greedy Algorithm

We can first sort the candies by price in descending order, then for every three candies, we take two. This ensures that the candies we get for free are the most expensive, thereby minimizing the total cost.

The time complexity is $O(n \log n)$, and the space complexity is $O(\log n)$. Here, $n$ is the number of candies.

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumCost(self, cost: List[int]) -> int:
        cost.sort(reverse=True)
        return sum(cost) - sum(cost[2::3])
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int minimumCost(int[] cost) {
        Arrays.sort(cost);
        int ans = 0;
        for (int i = cost.length - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3) {
            ans += cost[i];
            if (i > 0) {
                ans += cost[i - 1];
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minimumCost(vector<int>& cost) {
        sort(cost.rbegin(), cost.rend());
        int ans = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < cost.size(); i += 3) {
            ans += cost[i];
            if (i < cost.size() - 1) {
                ans += cost[i + 1];
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func minimumCost(cost []int) (ans int) {
	sort.Ints(cost)
	for i := len(cost) - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3 {
		ans += cost[i]
		if i > 0 {
			ans += cost[i-1]
		}
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function minimumCost(cost: number[]): number {
    cost.sort((a, b) => a - b);
    let ans = 0;
    for (let i = cost.length - 1; i >= 0; i -= 3) {
        ans += cost[i];
        if (i) {
            ans += cost[i - 1];
        }
    }
    return ans;
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->
