solution/1500-1599/1581.Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions/README_EN.md, before:

# [1581. Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions](https://leetcode.com/problems/customer-who-visited-but-did-not-make-any-transactions)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1581.Customer%20Who%20Visited%20but%20Did%20Not%20Make%20Any%20Transactions/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Visits</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| visit_id    | int     |
| customer_id | int     |
+-------------+---------+
visit_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the customers who visited the mall.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Transactions</code></p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| transaction_id | int     |
| visit_id       | int     |
| amount         | int     |
+----------------+---------+
transaction_id is column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the transactions made during the visit_id.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a&nbsp;solution to find the IDs of the users who visited without making any transactions and the number of times they made these types of visits.</p>

<p>Return the result table sorted in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Visits
+----------+-------------+
| visit_id | customer_id |
+----------+-------------+
| 1        | 23          |
| 2        | 9           |
| 4        | 30          |
| 5        | 54          |
| 6        | 96          |
| 7        | 54          |
| 8        | 54          |
+----------+-------------+
Transactions
+----------------+----------+--------+
| transaction_id | visit_id | amount |
+----------------+----------+--------+
| 2              | 5        | 310    |
| 3              | 5        | 300    |
| 9              | 5        | 200    |
| 12             | 1        | 910    |
| 13             | 2        | 970    |
+----------------+----------+--------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+----------------+
| customer_id | count_no_trans |
+-------------+----------------+
| 54          | 2              |
| 30          | 1              |
| 96          | 1              |
+-------------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Customer with id = 23 visited the mall once and made one transaction during the visit with id = 12.
Customer with id = 9 visited the mall once and made one transaction during the visit with id = 13.
Customer with id = 30 visited the mall once and did not make any transactions.
Customer with id = 54 visited the mall three times. During 2 visits they did not make any transactions, and during one visit they made 3 transactions.
Customer with id = 96 visited the mall once and did not make any transactions.
As we can see, users with IDs 30 and 96 visited the mall one time without making any transactions. Also, user 54 visited the mall twice and did not make any transactions.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

<!-- 这里可写当前语言的特殊实现逻辑 -->

```sql
SELECT
    customer_id,
    COUNT(*) AS count_no_trans
FROM Visits
WHERE
    visit_id NOT IN (
        SELECT visit_id
        FROM Transactions
    )
GROUP BY customer_id;
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT customer_id, COUNT(1) AS count_no_trans
FROM
    Visits AS v
    LEFT JOIN Transactions AS t ON v.visit_id = t.visit_id
WHERE amount IS NULL
GROUP BY customer_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.0197,0584,1581,1683,1757
* No.0197.Rising Temperature
* No.0584.Find Customer Referee
* No.1581.Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions
* No.1683.Invalid Tweets
* No.1757.Recyclable and Low Fat Products

solution/1500-1599/1581.Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions/README_EN.md, after:

# [1581. Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions](https://leetcode.com/problems/customer-who-visited-but-did-not-make-any-transactions)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1581.Customer%20Who%20Visited%20but%20Did%20Not%20Make%20Any%20Transactions/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Visits</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| visit_id    | int     |
| customer_id | int     |
+-------------+---------+
visit_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the customers who visited the mall.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Transactions</code></p>

<pre>
+----------------+---------+
| Column Name    | Type    |
+----------------+---------+
| transaction_id | int     |
| visit_id       | int     |
| amount         | int     |
+----------------+---------+
transaction_id is column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the transactions made during the visit_id.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a&nbsp;solution to find the IDs of the users who visited without making any transactions and the number of times they made these types of visits.</p>

<p>Return the result table sorted in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Visits
+----------+-------------+
| visit_id | customer_id |
+----------+-------------+
| 1        | 23          |
| 2        | 9           |
| 4        | 30          |
| 5        | 54          |
| 6        | 96          |
| 7        | 54          |
| 8        | 54          |
+----------+-------------+
Transactions
+----------------+----------+--------+
| transaction_id | visit_id | amount |
+----------------+----------+--------+
| 2              | 5        | 310    |
| 3              | 5        | 300    |
| 9              | 5        | 200    |
| 12             | 1        | 910    |
| 13             | 2        | 970    |
+----------------+----------+--------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+----------------+
| customer_id | count_no_trans |
+-------------+----------------+
| 54          | 2              |
| 30          | 1              |
| 96          | 1              |
+-------------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Customer with id = 23 visited the mall once and made one transaction during the visit with id = 12.
Customer with id = 9 visited the mall once and made one transaction during the visit with id = 13.
Customer with id = 30 visited the mall once and did not make any transactions.
Customer with id = 54 visited the mall three times. During 2 visits they did not make any transactions, and during one visit they made 3 transactions.
Customer with id = 96 visited the mall once and did not make any transactions.
As we can see, users with IDs 30 and 96 visited the mall one time without making any transactions. Also, user 54 visited the mall twice and did not make any transactions.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Subquery + Grouping**

We can use a subquery to first find all `visit_id`s that have not made any transactions, and then group by `customer_id` to count the number of times each customer has not made any transactions.

**Solution 2: Left Join + Grouping**

We can also use a left join to join the `Visits` table and the `Transactions` table on `visit_id`, and then filter out the records where `amount` is `NULL`. After that, we can group by `customer_id` to count the number of times each customer has not made any transactions.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

<!-- 这里可写当前语言的特殊实现逻辑 -->

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT customer_id, COUNT(1) AS count_no_trans
FROM Visits
WHERE visit_id NOT IN (SELECT visit_id FROM Transactions)
GROUP BY 1;
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT customer_id, COUNT(1) AS count_no_trans
FROM
    Visits
    LEFT JOIN Transactions USING (visit_id)
WHERE amount IS NULL
GROUP BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
