solution/1800-1899/1890.The Latest Login in 2020/README_EN.md, before:

# [1890. The Latest Login in 2020](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-latest-login-in-2020)

[中文文档](/solution/1800-1899/1890.The%20Latest%20Login%20in%202020/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Logins</code></p>

<pre>
+----------------+----------+
| Column Name    | Type     |
+----------------+----------+
| user_id        | int      |
| time_stamp     | datetime |
+----------------+----------+
(user_id, time_stamp) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
Each row contains information about the login time for the user with ID user_id.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the <strong>latest</strong> login for all users in the year <code>2020</code>. Do <strong>not</strong> include the users who did not login in <code>2020</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table <strong>in any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Logins table:
+---------+---------------------+
| user_id | time_stamp          |
+---------+---------------------+
| 6       | 2020-06-30 15:06:07 |
| 6       | 2021-04-21 14:06:06 |
| 6       | 2019-03-07 00:18:15 |
| 8       | 2020-02-01 05:10:53 |
| 8       | 2020-12-30 00:46:50 |
| 2       | 2020-01-16 02:49:50 |
| 2       | 2019-08-25 07:59:08 |
| 14      | 2019-07-14 09:00:00 |
| 14      | 2021-01-06 11:59:59 |
+---------+---------------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+---------------------+
| user_id | last_stamp          |
+---------+---------------------+
| 6       | 2020-06-30 15:06:07 |
| 8       | 2020-12-30 00:46:50 |
| 2       | 2020-01-16 02:49:50 |
+---------+---------------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
User 6 logged into their account 3 times but only once in 2020, so we include this login in the result table.
User 8 logged into their account 2 times in 2020, once in February and once in December. We include only the latest one (December) in the result table.
User 2 logged into their account 2 times but only once in 2020, so we include this login in the result table.
User 14 did not login in 2020, so we do not include them in the result table.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
SELECT
    user_id,
    MAX(time_stamp) AS last_stamp
FROM Logins
WHERE YEAR(time_stamp) = 2020
GROUP BY user_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems (#1784)
* No.0511.Game Play Analysis I
* No.0586.Customer Placing the Largest Number of Orders
* No.1212.Team Scores in Football Tournament
* No.1440.Evaluate Boolean Expression
* No.1571.Warehouse Manager
* No.1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee
* No.1742.Maximum Number of Balls in a Box
* No.1890.The Latest Login in 2020
* No.2512.Reward Top K Students

solution/1800-1899/1890.The Latest Login in 2020/README_EN.md, after:

# [1890. The Latest Login in 2020](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-latest-login-in-2020)

[中文文档](/solution/1800-1899/1890.The%20Latest%20Login%20in%202020/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Logins</code></p>

<pre>
+----------------+----------+
| Column Name    | Type     |
+----------------+----------+
| user_id        | int      |
| time_stamp     | datetime |
+----------------+----------+
(user_id, time_stamp) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
Each row contains information about the login time for the user with ID user_id.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the <strong>latest</strong> login for all users in the year <code>2020</code>. Do <strong>not</strong> include the users who did not login in <code>2020</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table <strong>in any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Logins table:
+---------+---------------------+
| user_id | time_stamp          |
+---------+---------------------+
| 6       | 2020-06-30 15:06:07 |
| 6       | 2021-04-21 14:06:06 |
| 6       | 2019-03-07 00:18:15 |
| 8       | 2020-02-01 05:10:53 |
| 8       | 2020-12-30 00:46:50 |
| 2       | 2020-01-16 02:49:50 |
| 2       | 2019-08-25 07:59:08 |
| 14      | 2019-07-14 09:00:00 |
| 14      | 2021-01-06 11:59:59 |
+---------+---------------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+---------------------+
| user_id | last_stamp          |
+---------+---------------------+
| 6       | 2020-06-30 15:06:07 |
| 8       | 2020-12-30 00:46:50 |
| 2       | 2020-01-16 02:49:50 |
+---------+---------------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
User 6 logged into their account 3 times but only once in 2020, so we include this login in the result table.
User 8 logged into their account 2 times in 2020, once in February and once in December. We include only the latest one (December) in the result table.
User 2 logged into their account 2 times but only once in 2020, so we include this login in the result table.
User 14 did not login in 2020, so we do not include them in the result table.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Max Function**

We can first filter out the login records in 2020, and then group by `user_id`, and use the `max` function to calculate the maximum login time for each user.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT user_id, max(time_stamp) AS last_stamp
FROM Logins
WHERE year(time_stamp) = 2020
GROUP BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
