solution/0000-0099/0055.Jump Game/README_EN.md, before:

# [55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game)

[中文文档](/solution/0000-0099/0055.Jump%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<p>You are given an integer array <code>nums</code>. You are initially positioned at the array&#39;s <strong>first index</strong>, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.</p>

<p>Return <code>true</code><em> if you can reach the last index, or </em><code>false</code><em> otherwise</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,3,1,1,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> true
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [3,2,1,0,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
<strong>Explanation:</strong> You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Greedy**

We use a variable $mx$ to maintain the farthest index that can be reached, initially $mx = 0$.

We traverse the array from left to right, for each position $i$ we are currently traversing, if $mx \lt i$, it means that the current position cannot be reached, directly return `false`. Otherwise, the farthest position that can be reached from position $i$ by jumping is $i+nums[i]$, we use $i+nums[i]$ to update the value of $mx$, that is $mx = \max(mx, i + nums[i])$.

When the traversal ends, return `true` directly.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, where $n$ is the length of the array. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        mx = 0
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            if mx < i:
                return False
            mx = max(mx, i + x)
        return True
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean canJump(int[] nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool canJump(vector<int>& nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
};
```

### **Rust**

```rust
impl Solution {
    #[allow(dead_code)]
    pub fn can_jump(nums: Vec<i32>) -> bool {
        let n = nums.len();
        let mut mx = 0;

        for i in 0..n {
            if mx < i {
                return false;
            }
            mx = std::cmp::max(mx, i + (nums[i] as usize));
        }

        true
    }
}
```

### **Go**

```go
func canJump(nums []int) bool {
	mx := 0
	for i, x := range nums {
		if mx < i {
			return false
		}
		mx = max(mx, i+x)
	}
	return true
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
function canJump(nums: number[]): boolean {
    let mx: number = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        if (mx < i) {
            return false;
        }
        mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
    }
    return true;
}
```

### **JavaScript**

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var canJump = function (nums) {
    let mx = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        if (mx < i) {
            return false;
        }
        mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
    }
    return true;
};
```

### **C#**

```cs
public class Solution {
    public bool CanJump(int[] nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.Length; ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = Math.Max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems (#2031)

solution/0000-0099/0055.Jump Game/README_EN.md, after:

# [55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game)

[中文文档](/solution/0000-0099/0055.Jump%20Game/README.md)

## Description

<p>You are given an integer array <code>nums</code>. You are initially positioned at the array&#39;s <strong>first index</strong>, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.</p>

<p>Return <code>true</code><em> if you can reach the last index, or </em><code>false</code><em> otherwise</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,3,1,1,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> true
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> nums = [3,2,1,0,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
<strong>Explanation:</strong> You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Greedy**

We use a variable $mx$ to maintain the farthest index that can currently be reached, initially $mx = 0$.

We traverse the array from left to right. For each position $i$ we traverse, if $mx < i$, it means that the current position cannot be reached, so we directly return `false`. Otherwise, the farthest position that we can reach by jumping from position $i$ is $i+nums[i]$, we use $i+nums[i]$ to update the value of $mx$, that is, $mx = \max(mx, i + nums[i])$.

At the end of the traversal, we directly return `true`.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, where $n$ is the length of the array. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

Similar problems:

-   [45. Jump Game II](/solution/0000-0099/0045.Jump%20Game%20II/README_EN.md)
-   [1024. Video Stitching](/solution/1000-1099/1024.Video%20Stitching/README_EN.md)
-   [1326. Minimum Number of Taps to Open to Water a Garden](/solution/1300-1399/1326.Minimum%20Number%20of%20Taps%20to%20Open%20to%20Water%20a%20Garden/README_EN.md)

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        mx = 0
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            if mx < i:
                return False
            mx = max(mx, i + x)
        return True
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean canJump(int[] nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool canJump(vector<int>& nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
};
```

### **Rust**

```rust
impl Solution {
    #[allow(dead_code)]
    pub fn can_jump(nums: Vec<i32>) -> bool {
        let n = nums.len();
        let mut mx = 0;

        for i in 0..n {
            if mx < i {
                return false;
            }
            mx = std::cmp::max(mx, i + (nums[i] as usize));
        }

        true
    }
}
```

### **Go**

```go
func canJump(nums []int) bool {
	mx := 0
	for i, x := range nums {
		if mx < i {
			return false
		}
		mx = max(mx, i+x)
	}
	return true
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
function canJump(nums: number[]): boolean {
    let mx: number = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        if (mx < i) {
            return false;
        }
        mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
    }
    return true;
}
```

### **JavaScript**

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var canJump = function (nums) {
    let mx = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; ++i) {
        if (mx < i) {
            return false;
        }
        mx = Math.max(mx, i + nums[i]);
    }
    return true;
};
```

### **C#**

```cs
public class Solution {
    public bool CanJump(int[] nums) {
        int mx = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.Length; ++i) {
            if (mx < i) {
                return false;
            }
            mx = Math.Max(mx, i + nums[i]);
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->
