solution/1300-1399/1303.Find the Team Size/README_EN.md, before:

# [1303. Find the Team Size](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-team-size)

[中文文档](/solution/1300-1399/1303.Find%20the%20Team%20Size/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employee</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| employee_id   | int     |
| team_id       | int     |
+---------------+---------+
employee_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the ID of each employee and their respective team.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the team size of each of the employees.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employee Table:
+-------------+------------+
| employee_id | team_id    |
+-------------+------------+
|     1       |     8      |
|     2       |     8      |
|     3       |     8      |
|     4       |     7      |
|     5       |     9      |
|     6       |     9      |
+-------------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+------------+
| employee_id | team_size  |
+-------------+------------+
|     1       |     3      |
|     2       |     3      |
|     3       |     3      |
|     4       |     1      |
|     5       |     2      |
|     6       |     2      |
+-------------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Employees with Id 1,2,3 are part of a team with team_id = 8.
Employee with Id 4 is part of a team with team_id = 7.
Employees with Id 5,6 are part of a team with team_id = 9.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

Solution 1:

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    e.employee_id,
    t.team_size
FROM
    Employee AS e
    LEFT JOIN (
        SELECT
            team_id,
            count(1) AS team_size
        FROM Employee
        GROUP BY team_id
    ) AS t
        ON e.team_id = t.team_id;
```

Solution 2:

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    e1.employee_id,
    count(*) AS team_size
FROM
    Employee AS e1
    LEFT JOIN Employee AS e2 ON e1.team_id = e2.team_id
GROUP BY e1.employee_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.0512,1303,1350,1747,1783
* No.0512.Game Play Analysis II
* No.1303.Find the Team Size
* No.1350.Students With Invalid Departments
* No.1747.Leetflex Banned Accounts
* No.1783.Grand Slam Titles

solution/1300-1399/1303.Find the Team Size/README_EN.md, after:

# [1303. Find the Team Size](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-team-size)

[中文文档](/solution/1300-1399/1303.Find%20the%20Team%20Size/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employee</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| employee_id   | int     |
| team_id       | int     |
+---------------+---------+
employee_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the ID of each employee and their respective team.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to find the team size of each of the employees.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employee Table:
+-------------+------------+
| employee_id | team_id    |
+-------------+------------+
|     1       |     8      |
|     2       |     8      |
|     3       |     8      |
|     4       |     7      |
|     5       |     9      |
|     6       |     9      |
+-------------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+------------+
| employee_id | team_size  |
+-------------+------------+
|     1       |     3      |
|     2       |     3      |
|     3       |     3      |
|     4       |     1      |
|     5       |     2      |
|     6       |     2      |
+-------------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Employees with Id 1,2,3 are part of a team with team_id = 8.
Employee with Id 4 is part of a team with team_id = 7.
Employees with Id 5,6 are part of a team with team_id = 9.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Equi-Join**

We can first count the number of people in each team and record it in the `T` table. Then, we can use an equi-join to join the `Employee` table and the `T` table based on `team_id`, and obtain the total number of people in each team.

**Solution 2: Left Join**

We can also use a left join to join the `Employee` table with itself based on `team_id`, and then group by `employee_id` to count the total number of people in each team that the employee belongs to.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT team_id, count(1) AS team_size
        FROM Employee
        GROUP BY 1
    )
SELECT employee_id, team_size
FROM
    Employee
    JOIN T USING (team_id);
```

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT e1.employee_id, count(1) AS team_size
FROM
    Employee AS e1
    LEFT JOIN Employee AS e2 USING (team_id)
GROUP BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
