solution/0500-0599/0584.Find Customer Referee/README_EN.md, before:

# [584. Find Customer Referee](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-customer-referee)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0584.Find%20Customer%20Referee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customer</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| id          | int     |
| name        | varchar |
| referee_id  | int     |
+-------------+---------+
In SQL, id is the primary key column for this table.
Each row of this table indicates the id of a customer, their name, and the id of the customer who referred them.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Find the names of the customer that are <strong>not referred by</strong> the customer with <code>id = 2</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customer table:
+----+------+------------+
| id | name | referee_id |
+----+------+------------+
| 1  | Will | null       |
| 2  | Jane | null       |
| 3  | Alex | 2          |
| 4  | Bill | null       |
| 5  | Zack | 1          |
| 6  | Mark | 2          |
+----+------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------+
| name |
+------+
| Will |
| Jane |
| Bill |
| Zack |
+------+
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name
FROM Customer
WHERE IFNULL(referee_id, 0) != 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.0197,0584,1581,1683,1757
* No.0197.Rising Temperature
* No.0584.Find Customer Referee
* No.1581.Customer Who Visited but Did Not Make Any Transactions
* No.1683.Invalid Tweets
* No.1757.Recyclable and Low Fat Products

solution/0500-0599/0584.Find Customer Referee/README_EN.md, after:

# [584. Find Customer Referee](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-customer-referee)

[中文文档](/solution/0500-0599/0584.Find%20Customer%20Referee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Customer</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| id          | int     |
| name        | varchar |
| referee_id  | int     |
+-------------+---------+
In SQL, id is the primary key column for this table.
Each row of this table indicates the id of a customer, their name, and the id of the customer who referred them.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Find the names of the customer that are <strong>not referred by</strong> the customer with <code>id = 2</code>.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Customer table:
+----+------+------------+
| id | name | referee_id |
+----+------+------------+
| 1  | Will | null       |
| 2  | Jane | null       |
| 3  | Alex | 2          |
| 4  | Bill | null       |
| 5  | Zack | 1          |
| 6  | Mark | 2          |
+----+------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+------+
| name |
+------+
| Will |
| Jane |
| Bill |
| Zack |
+------+
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Conditional Filtering**

We can directly filter out the customer names whose `referee_id` is not `2`. Note that the customers whose `referee_id` is `NULL` should also be filtered out.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT name
FROM Customer
WHERE IFNULL(referee_id, 0) != 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
