solution/1600-1699/1693.Daily Leads and Partners/README_EN.md, before:

# [1693. Daily Leads and Partners](https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-leads-and-partners)

[中文文档](/solution/1600-1699/1693.Daily%20Leads%20and%20Partners/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>DailySales</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| date_id     | date    |
| make_name   | varchar |
| lead_id     | int     |
| partner_id  | int     |
+-------------+---------+
There is no primary key (column with unique values) for this table. It may contain duplicates.
This table contains the date and the name of the product sold and the IDs of the lead and partner it was sold to.
The name consists of only lowercase English letters.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>For each <code>date_id</code> and <code>make_name</code>, find the number of <strong>distinct</strong> <code>lead_id</code>&#39;s and <strong>distinct</strong> <code>partner_id</code>&#39;s.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
DailySales table:
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
| date_id   | make_name | lead_id | partner_id |
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 1       | 0          |
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 0       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 2       | 1          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 2       | 1          |
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
| date_id   | make_name | unique_leads | unique_partners |
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 2            | 3               |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 1            | 2               |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 2            | 2               |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 3            | 2               |
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
For 2020-12-8, toyota gets leads = [0, 1] and partners = [0, 1, 2] while honda gets leads = [1, 2] and partners = [1, 2].
For 2020-12-7, toyota gets leads = [0] and partners = [1, 2] while honda gets leads = [0, 1, 2] and partners = [1, 2].
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
SELECT
    date_id,
    make_name,
    COUNT(DISTINCT lead_id) AS unique_leads,
    COUNT(DISTINCT partner_id) AS unique_partners
FROM DailySales
GROUP BY date_id, make_name;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.0182.Duplicate Emails
* No.1050.Actors and Directors Who Cooperated At Least Three Times
* No.1495.Friendly Movies Streamed Last Month
* No.1511.Customer Order Frequency
* No.1587.Bank Account Summary II
* No.1693.Daily Leads and Partners
* No.1699.Number of Calls Between Two Persons
* No.2562.Find the Array Concatenation Value

solution/1600-1699/1693.Daily Leads and Partners/README_EN.md, after:

# [1693. Daily Leads and Partners](https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-leads-and-partners)

[中文文档](/solution/1600-1699/1693.Daily%20Leads%20and%20Partners/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>DailySales</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+---------+
| Column Name | Type    |
+-------------+---------+
| date_id     | date    |
| make_name   | varchar |
| lead_id     | int     |
| partner_id  | int     |
+-------------+---------+
There is no primary key (column with unique values) for this table. It may contain duplicates.
This table contains the date and the name of the product sold and the IDs of the lead and partner it was sold to.
The name consists of only lowercase English letters.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>For each <code>date_id</code> and <code>make_name</code>, find the number of <strong>distinct</strong> <code>lead_id</code>&#39;s and <strong>distinct</strong> <code>partner_id</code>&#39;s.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
DailySales table:
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
| date_id   | make_name | lead_id | partner_id |
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 1       | 0          |
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 0       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 2       | 1          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 0       | 1          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 1       | 2          |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 2       | 1          |
+-----------+-----------+---------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
| date_id   | make_name | unique_leads | unique_partners |
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
| 2020-12-8 | toyota    | 2            | 3               |
| 2020-12-7 | toyota    | 1            | 2               |
| 2020-12-8 | honda     | 2            | 2               |
| 2020-12-7 | honda     | 3            | 2               |
+-----------+-----------+--------------+-----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
For 2020-12-8, toyota gets leads = [0, 1] and partners = [0, 1, 2] while honda gets leads = [1, 2] and partners = [1, 2].
For 2020-12-7, toyota gets leads = [0] and partners = [1, 2] while honda gets leads = [0, 1, 2] and partners = [1, 2].
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Group By + Count Distinct**

We can use the `GROUP BY` statement to group the data by the `date_id` and `make_name` fields, and then use the `COUNT(DISTINCT)` function to count the number of distinct values for `lead_id` and `partner_id`.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    date_id,
    make_name,
    count(DISTINCT lead_id) AS unique_leads,
    count(DISTINCT partner_id) AS unique_partners
FROM DailySales
GROUP BY 1, 2;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
