solution/1700-1799/1731.The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee/README_EN.md, before:

# [1731. The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-number-of-employees-which-report-to-each-employee)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1731.The%20Number%20of%20Employees%20Which%20Report%20to%20Each%20Employee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employees</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+----------+
| Column Name | Type     |
+-------------+----------+
| employee_id | int      |
| name        | varchar  |
| reports_to  | int      |
| age         | int      |
+-------------+----------+
employee_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the employees and the id of the manager they report to. Some employees do not report to anyone (reports_to is null). 
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>For this problem, we will consider a <strong>manager</strong> an employee who has at least 1 other employee reporting to them.</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the ids and the names of all <strong>managers</strong>, the number of employees who report <strong>directly</strong> to them, and the average age of the reports rounded to the nearest integer.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>employee_id</code>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employees table:
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
| employee_id | name    | reports_to | age |
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
| 9           | Hercy   | null       | 43  |
| 6           | Alice   | 9          | 41  |
| 4           | Bob     | 9          | 36  |
| 2           | Winston | null       | 37  |
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
| employee_id | name  | reports_count | average_age |
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
| 9           | Hercy | 2             | 39          |
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Hercy has 2 people report directly to him, Alice and Bob. Their average age is (41+36)/2 = 38.5, which is 39 after rounding it to the nearest integer.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    e2.employee_id,
    e2.name,
    COUNT(1) AS reports_count,
    ROUND(AVG(e1.age)) AS average_age
FROM
    Employees AS e1
    JOIN Employees AS e2 ON e1.reports_to = e2.employee_id
GROUP BY e2.employee_id
ORDER BY e2.employee_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add sql solutions to lc problems
* No.0550.Game Play Analysis IV
* No.0596.Classes More Than 5 Students
* No.0619.Biggest Single Number
* No.1045.Customers Who Bought All Products
* No.1729.Find Followers Count
* No.1731.The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee
* No.1789.Primary Department for Each Employee

solution/1700-1799/1731.The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee/README_EN.md, after:

# [1731. The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee](https://leetcode.com/problems/the-number-of-employees-which-report-to-each-employee)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1731.The%20Number%20of%20Employees%20Which%20Report%20to%20Each%20Employee/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Employees</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+----------+
| Column Name | Type     |
+-------------+----------+
| employee_id | int      |
| name        | varchar  |
| reports_to  | int      |
| age         | int      |
+-------------+----------+
employee_id is the column with unique values for this table.
This table contains information about the employees and the id of the manager they report to. Some employees do not report to anyone (reports_to is null). 
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>For this problem, we will consider a <strong>manager</strong> an employee who has at least 1 other employee reporting to them.</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the ids and the names of all <strong>managers</strong>, the number of employees who report <strong>directly</strong> to them, and the average age of the reports rounded to the nearest integer.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>employee_id</code>.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Employees table:
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
| employee_id | name    | reports_to | age |
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
| 9           | Hercy   | null       | 43  |
| 6           | Alice   | 9          | 41  |
| 4           | Bob     | 9          | 36  |
| 2           | Winston | null       | 37  |
+-------------+---------+------------+-----+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
| employee_id | name  | reports_count | average_age |
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
| 9           | Hercy | 2             | 39          |
+-------------+-------+---------------+-------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Hercy has 2 people report directly to him, Alice and Bob. Their average age is (41+36)/2 = 38.5, which is 39 after rounding it to the nearest integer.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Self-Join + Grouping**

We can use self-join to connect the information of each employee's superior manager to the information of each employee, and then use grouping and aggregation to count the number of subordinates and the average age of each manager.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    e2.employee_id,
    e2.name,
    COUNT(1) AS reports_count,
    ROUND(AVG(e1.age)) AS average_age
FROM
    Employees AS e1
    JOIN Employees AS e2 ON e1.reports_to = e2.employee_id
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
