solution/1500-1599/1571.Warehouse Manager/README_EN.md, before:

# [1571. Warehouse Manager](https://leetcode.com/problems/warehouse-manager)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1571.Warehouse%20Manager/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Warehouse</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| name         | varchar |
| product_id   | int     |
| units        | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(name, product_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of the products in each warehouse.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Products</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| product_id    | int     |
| product_name  | varchar |
| Width         | int     |
| Length        | int     |
| Height        | int     |
+---------------+---------+
product_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains information about the product dimensions (Width, Lenght, and Height) in feets of each product.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the number of cubic feet of <strong>volume </strong>the inventory occupies in each warehouse.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Warehouse table:
+------------+--------------+-------------+
| name       | product_id   | units       |
+------------+--------------+-------------+
| LCHouse1   | 1            | 1           |
| LCHouse1   | 2            | 10          |
| LCHouse1   | 3            | 5           |
| LCHouse2   | 1            | 2           |
| LCHouse2   | 2            | 2           |
| LCHouse3   | 4            | 1           |
+------------+--------------+-------------+
Products table:
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
| product_id | product_name | Width      | Length   | Height    |
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
| 1          | LC-TV        | 5          | 50       | 40        |
| 2          | LC-KeyChain  | 5          | 5        | 5         |
| 3          | LC-Phone     | 2          | 10       | 10        |
| 4          | LC-T-Shirt   | 4          | 10       | 20        |
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------------+------------+
| warehouse_name | volume     | 
+----------------+------------+
| LCHouse1       | 12250      | 
| LCHouse2       | 20250      |
| LCHouse3       | 800        |
+----------------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Volume of product_id = 1 (LC-TV), 5x50x40 = 10000
Volume of product_id = 2 (LC-KeyChain), 5x5x5 = 125 
Volume of product_id = 3 (LC-Phone), 2x10x10 = 200
Volume of product_id = 4 (LC-T-Shirt), 4x10x20 = 800
LCHouse1: 1 unit of LC-TV + 10 units of LC-KeyChain + 5 units of LC-Phone.
          Total volume: 1*10000 + 10*125  + 5*200 = 12250 cubic feet
LCHouse2: 2 units of LC-TV + 2 units of LC-KeyChain.
          Total volume: 2*10000 + 2*125 = 20250 cubic feet
LCHouse3: 1 unit of LC-T-Shirt.
          Total volume: 1*800 = 800 cubic feet.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    name AS warehouse_name,
    SUM(units * Width * Length * Height) AS volume
FROM
    Warehouse AS w
    JOIN Products AS p ON w.product_id = p.product_id
GROUP BY name;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.0511.Game Play Analysis I
* No.0586.Customer Placing the Largest Number of Orders
* No.1212.Team Scores in Football Tournament
* No.1440.Evaluate Boolean Expression
* No.1571.Warehouse Manager
* No.1741.Find Total Time Spent by Each Employee
* No.1742.Maximum Number of Balls in a Box
* No.1890.The Latest Login in 2020
* No.2512.Reward Top K Students

solution/1500-1599/1571.Warehouse Manager/README_EN.md, after:

# [1571. Warehouse Manager](https://leetcode.com/problems/warehouse-manager)

[中文文档](/solution/1500-1599/1571.Warehouse%20Manager/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Warehouse</code></p>

<pre>
+--------------+---------+
| Column Name  | Type    |
+--------------+---------+
| name         | varchar |
| product_id   | int     |
| units        | int     |
+--------------+---------+
(name, product_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains the information of the products in each warehouse.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Table: <code>Products</code></p>

<pre>
+---------------+---------+
| Column Name   | Type    |
+---------------+---------+
| product_id    | int     |
| product_name  | varchar |
| Width         | int     |
| Length        | int     |
| Height        | int     |
+---------------+---------+
product_id is the primary key (column with unique values) for this table.
Each row of this table contains information about the product dimensions (Width, Lenght, and Height) in feets of each product.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution to report the number of cubic feet of <strong>volume </strong>the inventory occupies in each warehouse.</p>

<p>Return the result table in <strong>any order</strong>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Warehouse table:
+------------+--------------+-------------+
| name       | product_id   | units       |
+------------+--------------+-------------+
| LCHouse1   | 1            | 1           |
| LCHouse1   | 2            | 10          |
| LCHouse1   | 3            | 5           |
| LCHouse2   | 1            | 2           |
| LCHouse2   | 2            | 2           |
| LCHouse3   | 4            | 1           |
+------------+--------------+-------------+
Products table:
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
| product_id | product_name | Width      | Length   | Height    |
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
| 1          | LC-TV        | 5          | 50       | 40        |
| 2          | LC-KeyChain  | 5          | 5        | 5         |
| 3          | LC-Phone     | 2          | 10       | 10        |
| 4          | LC-T-Shirt   | 4          | 10       | 20        |
+------------+--------------+------------+----------+-----------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+----------------+------------+
| warehouse_name | volume     | 
+----------------+------------+
| LCHouse1       | 12250      | 
| LCHouse2       | 20250      |
| LCHouse3       | 800        |
+----------------+------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
Volume of product_id = 1 (LC-TV), 5x50x40 = 10000
Volume of product_id = 2 (LC-KeyChain), 5x5x5 = 125 
Volume of product_id = 3 (LC-Phone), 2x10x10 = 200
Volume of product_id = 4 (LC-T-Shirt), 4x10x20 = 800
LCHouse1: 1 unit of LC-TV + 10 units of LC-KeyChain + 5 units of LC-Phone.
          Total volume: 1*10000 + 10*125  + 5*200 = 12250 cubic feet
LCHouse2: 2 units of LC-TV + 2 units of LC-KeyChain.
          Total volume: 2*10000 + 2*125 = 20250 cubic feet
LCHouse3: 1 unit of LC-T-Shirt.
          Total volume: 1*800 = 800 cubic feet.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Inner Join + Group By + Sum Function**

We can use an inner join to join the `Warehouse` table and the `Products` table on the condition of `product_id`, and then group by warehouse name to calculate the inventory of each warehouse using the `SUM` function.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    name AS warehouse_name,
    sum(width * length * height * units) AS volume
FROM
    Warehouse
    JOIN Products USING (product_id)
GROUP BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
