solution/1700-1799/1709.Biggest Window Between Visits/README_EN.md, before:

# [1709. Biggest Window Between Visits](https://leetcode.com/problems/biggest-window-between-visits)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1709.Biggest%20Window%20Between%20Visits/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>UserVisits</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| user_id     | int  |
| visit_date  | date |
+-------------+------+
This table does not have a primary key, it might contain duplicate rows.
This table contains logs of the dates that users visited a certain retailer.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Assume today&#39;s date is <code>&#39;2021-1-1&#39;</code>.</p>

<p>Write a solution that will, for each <code>user_id</code>, find out the largest <code>window</code> of days between each visit and the one right after it (or today if you are considering the last visit).</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>user_id</code>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
UserVisits table:
+---------+------------+
| user_id | visit_date |
+---------+------------+
| 1       | 2020-11-28 |
| 1       | 2020-10-20 |
| 1       | 2020-12-3  |
| 2       | 2020-10-5  |
| 2       | 2020-12-9  |
| 3       | 2020-11-11 |
+---------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+---------------+
| user_id | biggest_window|
+---------+---------------+
| 1       | 39            |
| 2       | 65            |
| 3       | 51            |
+---------+---------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
For the first user, the windows in question are between dates:
    - 2020-10-20 and 2020-11-28 with a total of 39 days. 
    - 2020-11-28 and 2020-12-3 with a total of 5 days. 
    - 2020-12-3 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 29 days.
Making the biggest window the one with 39 days.
For the second user, the windows in question are between dates:
    - 2020-10-5 and 2020-12-9 with a total of 65 days.
    - 2020-12-9 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 23 days.
Making the biggest window the one with 65 days.
For the third user, the only window in question is between dates 2020-11-11 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 51 days.
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT
    user_id,
    max(datediff(nxt_day, visit_date)) AS biggest_window
FROM
    (
        SELECT
            user_id,
            visit_date,
            lead(visit_date, 1, '2021-1-1') OVER (
                PARTITION BY user_id
                ORDER BY visit_date
            ) AS nxt_day
        FROM UserVisits
    ) AS t
GROUP BY user_id
ORDER BY user_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems
* No.1225.Report Contiguous Dates
* No.1270.All People Report to the Given Manager
* No.1412.Find the Quiet Students in All Exams
* No.1596.The Most Frequently Ordered Products for Each Customer
* No.1709.Biggest Window Between Visits
* No.1767.Find the Subtasks That Did Not Execute

solution/1700-1799/1709.Biggest Window Between Visits/README_EN.md, after:

# [1709. Biggest Window Between Visits](https://leetcode.com/problems/biggest-window-between-visits)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1709.Biggest%20Window%20Between%20Visits/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>UserVisits</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| user_id     | int  |
| visit_date  | date |
+-------------+------+
This table does not have a primary key, it might contain duplicate rows.
This table contains logs of the dates that users visited a certain retailer.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Assume today&#39;s date is <code>&#39;2021-1-1&#39;</code>.</p>

<p>Write a solution that will, for each <code>user_id</code>, find out the largest <code>window</code> of days between each visit and the one right after it (or today if you are considering the last visit).</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>user_id</code>.</p>

<p>The query result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
UserVisits table:
+---------+------------+
| user_id | visit_date |
+---------+------------+
| 1       | 2020-11-28 |
| 1       | 2020-10-20 |
| 1       | 2020-12-3  |
| 2       | 2020-10-5  |
| 2       | 2020-12-9  |
| 3       | 2020-11-11 |
+---------+------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+---------------+
| user_id | biggest_window|
+---------+---------------+
| 1       | 39            |
| 2       | 65            |
| 3       | 51            |
+---------+---------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
For the first user, the windows in question are between dates:
    - 2020-10-20 and 2020-11-28 with a total of 39 days. 
    - 2020-11-28 and 2020-12-3 with a total of 5 days. 
    - 2020-12-3 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 29 days.
Making the biggest window the one with 39 days.
For the second user, the windows in question are between dates:
    - 2020-10-5 and 2020-12-9 with a total of 65 days.
    - 2020-12-9 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 23 days.
Making the biggest window the one with 65 days.
For the third user, the only window in question is between dates 2020-11-11 and 2021-1-1 with a total of 51 days.
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Window Function**

We can use the window function `LEAD` to obtain the date of the next visit for each user (if the date of the next visit does not exist, it is considered as `2021-1-1`), and then use the `DATEDIFF` function to calculate the number of days between two visits. Finally, we can take the maximum value of the number of days between visits for each user.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
WITH
    T AS (
        SELECT
            user_id,
            datediff(
                lead(visit_date, 1, '2021-1-1') OVER (
                    PARTITION BY user_id
                    ORDER BY visit_date
                ),
                visit_date
            ) AS diff
        FROM UserVisits
    )
SELECT user_id, max(diff) AS biggest_window
FROM T
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
