solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom/README_EN.md, before:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Hard
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/README_EN.md
rating: 2033
source: Weekly Contest 275 Q4
tags:
    - Greedy
    - Array
    - Sorting
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2136. Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom](https://leetcode.com/problems/earliest-possible-day-of-full-bloom)

[中文文档](/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>You have <code>n</code> flower seeds. Every seed must be planted first before it can begin to grow, then bloom. Planting a seed takes time and so does the growth of a seed. You are given two <strong>0-indexed</strong> integer arrays <code>plantTime</code> and <code>growTime</code>, of length <code>n</code> each:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>plantTime[i]</code> is the number of <strong>full days</strong> it takes you to <strong>plant</strong> the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> seed. Every day, you can work on planting exactly one seed. You <strong>do not</strong> have to work on planting the same seed on consecutive days, but the planting of a seed is not complete <strong>until</strong> you have worked <code>plantTime[i]</code> days on planting it in total.</li>
	<li><code>growTime[i]</code> is the number of <strong>full days</strong> it takes the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> seed to grow after being completely planted. <strong>After</strong> the last day of its growth, the flower <strong>blooms</strong> and stays bloomed forever.</li>
</ul>

<p>From the beginning of day <code>0</code>, you can plant the seeds in <strong>any</strong> order.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>earliest</strong> possible day where <strong>all</strong> seeds are blooming</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/images/1.png" style="width: 453px; height: 149px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1,4,3], growTime = [2,3,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 9
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.
One optimal way is:
On day 0, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 3.
On days 1, 2, 3, and 4, plant the 1<sup>st</sup> seed. The seed grows for 3 full days and blooms on day 8.
On days 5, 6, and 7, plant the 2<sup>nd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.
Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/images/2.png" style="width: 454px; height: 184px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1,2,3,2], growTime = [2,1,2,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 9
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.
One optimal way is:
On day 1, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 4.
On days 0 and 3, plant the 1<sup>st</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 5.
On days 2, 4, and 5, plant the 2<sup>nd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 8.
On days 6 and 7, plant the 3<sup>rd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.
Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1], growTime = [1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> On day 0, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 2.
Thus, on day 2, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>n == plantTime.length == growTime.length</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= plantTime[i], growTime[i] &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def earliestFullBloom(self, plantTime: List[int], growTime: List[int]) -> int:
        ans = t = 0
        for pt, gt in sorted(zip(plantTime, growTime), key=lambda x: -x[1]):
            t += pt
            ans = max(ans, t + gt)
        return ans
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int earliestFullBloom(int[] plantTime, int[] growTime) {
        int n = plantTime.length;
        Integer[] idx = new Integer[n];
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            idx[i] = i;
        }
        Arrays.sort(idx, (i, j) -> growTime[j] - growTime[i]);
        int ans = 0, t = 0;
        for (int i : idx) {
            t += plantTime[i];
            ans = Math.max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int earliestFullBloom(vector<int>& plantTime, vector<int>& growTime) {
        int n = plantTime.size();
        vector<int> idx(n);
        iota(idx.begin(), idx.end(), 0);
        sort(idx.begin(), idx.end(), [&](int i, int j) { return growTime[j] < growTime[i]; });
        int ans = 0, t = 0;
        for (int i : idx) {
            t += plantTime[i];
            ans = max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func earliestFullBloom(plantTime []int, growTime []int) (ans int) {
	n := len(plantTime)
	idx := make([]int, n)
	for i := range idx {
		idx[i] = i
	}
	sort.Slice(idx, func(i, j int) bool { return growTime[idx[j]] < growTime[idx[i]] })
	t := 0
	for _, i := range idx {
		t += plantTime[i]
		ans = max(ans, t+growTime[i])
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function earliestFullBloom(plantTime: number[], growTime: number[]): number {
    const n = plantTime.length;
    const idx: number[] = Array.from({ length: n }, (_, i) => i);
    idx.sort((i, j) => growTime[j] - growTime[i]);
    let [ans, t] = [0, 0];
    for (const i of idx) {
        t += plantTime[i];
        ans = Math.max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
    }
    return ans;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn earliest_full_bloom(plant_time: Vec<i32>, grow_time: Vec<i32>) -> i32 {
        let mut idx: Vec<usize> = (0..plant_time.len()).collect();
        idx.sort_by_key(|&i| -&grow_time[i]);
        let mut ans = 0;
        let mut t = 0;
        for &i in &idx {
            t += plant_time[i];
            ans = ans.max(t + grow_time[i]);
        }
        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.2135~2137
* No.2135.Count Words Obtained After Adding a Letter
* No.2136.Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom
* No.2137.Pour Water Between Buckets to Make Water Levels Equal

solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom/README_EN.md, after:

---
comments: true
difficulty: Hard
edit_url: https://github.com/doocs/leetcode/edit/main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/README_EN.md
rating: 2033
source: Weekly Contest 275 Q4
tags:
    - Greedy
    - Array
    - Sorting
---

<!-- problem:start -->

# [2136. Earliest Possible Day of Full Bloom](https://leetcode.com/problems/earliest-possible-day-of-full-bloom)

[中文文档](/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/README.md)

## Description

<!-- description:start -->

<p>You have <code>n</code> flower seeds. Every seed must be planted first before it can begin to grow, then bloom. Planting a seed takes time and so does the growth of a seed. You are given two <strong>0-indexed</strong> integer arrays <code>plantTime</code> and <code>growTime</code>, of length <code>n</code> each:</p>

<ul>
	<li><code>plantTime[i]</code> is the number of <strong>full days</strong> it takes you to <strong>plant</strong> the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> seed. Every day, you can work on planting exactly one seed. You <strong>do not</strong> have to work on planting the same seed on consecutive days, but the planting of a seed is not complete <strong>until</strong> you have worked <code>plantTime[i]</code> days on planting it in total.</li>
	<li><code>growTime[i]</code> is the number of <strong>full days</strong> it takes the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> seed to grow after being completely planted. <strong>After</strong> the last day of its growth, the flower <strong>blooms</strong> and stays bloomed forever.</li>
</ul>

<p>From the beginning of day <code>0</code>, you can plant the seeds in <strong>any</strong> order.</p>

<p>Return <em>the <strong>earliest</strong> possible day where <strong>all</strong> seeds are blooming</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/images/1.png" style="width: 453px; height: 149px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1,4,3], growTime = [2,3,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 9
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.
One optimal way is:
On day 0, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 3.
On days 1, 2, 3, and 4, plant the 1<sup>st</sup> seed. The seed grows for 3 full days and blooms on day 8.
On days 5, 6, and 7, plant the 2<sup>nd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.
Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2100-2199/2136.Earliest%20Possible%20Day%20of%20Full%20Bloom/images/2.png" style="width: 454px; height: 184px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1,2,3,2], growTime = [2,1,2,1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 9
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The grayed out pots represent planting days, colored pots represent growing days, and the flower represents the day it blooms.
One optimal way is:
On day 1, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 4.
On days 0 and 3, plant the 1<sup>st</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 5.
On days 2, 4, and 5, plant the 2<sup>nd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 2 full days and blooms on day 8.
On days 6 and 7, plant the 3<sup>rd</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 9.
Thus, on day 9, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> plantTime = [1], growTime = [1]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> On day 0, plant the 0<sup>th</sup> seed. The seed grows for 1 full day and blooms on day 2.
Thus, on day 2, all the seeds are blooming.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>n == plantTime.length == growTime.length</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= plantTime[i], growTime[i] &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
</ul>

<!-- description:end -->

## Solutions

<!-- solution:start -->

### Solution 1: Greedy + Sorting

According to the problem description, we know that only one seed can be planted per day. Therefore, regardless of the planting order, the sum of the planting times for all seeds is always equal to $\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} plantTime[i]$. To make all seeds bloom as soon as possible, we should prioritize planting the seeds with the longest growth time. Hence, we can sort all seeds by their growth time in descending order and then plant them in sequence.

The time complexity is $O(n \log n)$, and the space complexity is $O(n)$, where $n$ is the number of seeds.

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### Python3

```python
class Solution:
    def earliestFullBloom(self, plantTime: List[int], growTime: List[int]) -> int:
        ans = t = 0
        for pt, gt in sorted(zip(plantTime, growTime), key=lambda x: -x[1]):
            t += pt
            ans = max(ans, t + gt)
        return ans
```

#### Java

```java
class Solution {
    public int earliestFullBloom(int[] plantTime, int[] growTime) {
        int n = plantTime.length;
        Integer[] idx = new Integer[n];
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            idx[i] = i;
        }
        Arrays.sort(idx, (i, j) -> growTime[j] - growTime[i]);
        int ans = 0, t = 0;
        for (int i : idx) {
            t += plantTime[i];
            ans = Math.max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

#### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int earliestFullBloom(vector<int>& plantTime, vector<int>& growTime) {
        int n = plantTime.size();
        vector<int> idx(n);
        iota(idx.begin(), idx.end(), 0);
        sort(idx.begin(), idx.end(), [&](int i, int j) { return growTime[j] < growTime[i]; });
        int ans = 0, t = 0;
        for (int i : idx) {
            t += plantTime[i];
            ans = max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

#### Go

```go
func earliestFullBloom(plantTime []int, growTime []int) (ans int) {
	n := len(plantTime)
	idx := make([]int, n)
	for i := range idx {
		idx[i] = i
	}
	sort.Slice(idx, func(i, j int) bool { return growTime[idx[j]] < growTime[idx[i]] })
	t := 0
	for _, i := range idx {
		t += plantTime[i]
		ans = max(ans, t+growTime[i])
	}
	return
}
```

#### TypeScript

```ts
function earliestFullBloom(plantTime: number[], growTime: number[]): number {
    const n = plantTime.length;
    const idx: number[] = Array.from({ length: n }, (_, i) => i);
    idx.sort((i, j) => growTime[j] - growTime[i]);
    let [ans, t] = [0, 0];
    for (const i of idx) {
        t += plantTime[i];
        ans = Math.max(ans, t + growTime[i]);
    }
    return ans;
}
```

#### Rust

```rust
impl Solution {
    pub fn earliest_full_bloom(plant_time: Vec<i32>, grow_time: Vec<i32>) -> i32 {
        let mut idx: Vec<usize> = (0..plant_time.len()).collect();
        idx.sort_by_key(|&i| -&grow_time[i]);
        let mut ans = 0;
        let mut t = 0;
        for &i in &idx {
            t += plant_time[i];
            ans = ans.max(t + grow_time[i]);
        }
        ans
    }
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- solution:end -->

<!-- problem:end -->
