solution/0400-0499/0409.Longest Palindrome/README_EN.md, before:

# [409. Longest Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindrome)

[中文文档](/solution/0400-0499/0409.Longest%20Palindrome/README.md)

## Description

<p>Given a string <code>s</code> which consists of lowercase or uppercase letters, return <em>the length of the <strong>longest palindrome</strong></em>&nbsp;that can be built with those letters.</p>

<p>Letters are <strong>case sensitive</strong>, for example,&nbsp;<code>&quot;Aa&quot;</code> is not considered a palindrome here.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;abccccdd&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 7
<strong>Explanation:</strong> One longest palindrome that can be built is &quot;dccaccd&quot;, whose length is 7.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;a&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The longest palindrome that can be built is &quot;a&quot;, whose length is 1.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= s.length &lt;= 2000</code></li>
	<li><code>s</code> consists of lowercase <strong>and/or</strong> uppercase English&nbsp;letters only.</li>
</ul>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def longestPalindrome(self, s: str) -> int:
        cnt = Counter(s)
        ans = 0
        for v in cnt.values():
            ans += v - (v & 1)
            ans += (ans & 1 ^ 1) and (v & 1)
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestPalindrome(String s) {
        int[] cnt = new int[128];
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); ++i) {
            ++cnt[s.charAt(i)];
        }
        int ans = 0;
        for (int v : cnt) {
            ans += v - (v & 1);
            if (ans % 2 == 0 && v % 2 == 1) {
                ++ans;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int longestPalindrome(string s) {
        int cnt[128]{};
        for (char& c : s) {
            ++cnt[c];
        }
        int ans = 0;
        for (int v : cnt) {
            ans += v - (v & 1);
            if (ans % 2 == 0 && v % 2 == 1) {
                ++ans;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
func longestPalindrome(s string) (ans int) {
	cnt := [128]int{}
	for _, c := range s {
		cnt[c]++
	}
	for _, v := range cnt {
		ans += v - (v & 1)
		if ans&1 == 0 && v&1 == 1 {
			ans++
		}
	}
	return
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
function longestPalindrome(s: string): number {
    let n = s.length;
    let ans = 0;
    let record = new Array(128).fill(0);
    for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        record[s.charCodeAt(i)]++;
    }
    for (let i = 65; i < 128; i++) {
        let count = record[i];
        ans += count % 2 == 0 ? count : count - 1;
    }
    return ans < s.length ? ans + 1 : ans;
}
```

```ts
function longestPalindrome(s: string): number {
    const map = new Map();
    for (const c of s) {
        map.set(c, (map.get(c) ?? 0) + 1);
    }
    let hasOdd = false;
    let res = 0;
    for (const v of map.values()) {
        res += v;
        if (v & 1) {
            hasOdd = true;
            res--;
        }
    }
    return res + (hasOdd ? 1 : 0);
}
```

### **Rust**

```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

impl Solution {
    pub fn longest_palindrome(s: String) -> i32 {
        let mut map: HashMap<char, i32> = HashMap::new();
        for c in s.chars() {
            map.insert(c, map.get(&c).unwrap_or(&0) + 1);
        }
        let mut has_odd = false;
        let mut res = 0;
        for v in map.values() {
            res += v;
            if v % 2 == 1 {
                has_odd = true;
                res -= 1;
            }
        }
        res + (if has_odd { 1 } else { 0 })
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add solutions to lc problems: No.0408~0410
* No.0408.Valid Word Abbreviation
* No.0409.Longest Palindrome
* No.0410.Split Array Largest Sum

solution/0400-0499/0409.Longest Palindrome/README_EN.md, after:

# [409. Longest Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindrome)

[中文文档](/solution/0400-0499/0409.Longest%20Palindrome/README.md)

## Description

<p>Given a string <code>s</code> which consists of lowercase or uppercase letters, return <em>the length of the <strong>longest palindrome</strong></em>&nbsp;that can be built with those letters.</p>

<p>Letters are <strong>case sensitive</strong>, for example,&nbsp;<code>&quot;Aa&quot;</code> is not considered a palindrome here.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;abccccdd&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 7
<strong>Explanation:</strong> One longest palindrome that can be built is &quot;dccaccd&quot;, whose length is 7.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> s = &quot;a&quot;
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The longest palindrome that can be built is &quot;a&quot;, whose length is 1.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= s.length &lt;= 2000</code></li>
	<li><code>s</code> consists of lowercase <strong>and/or</strong> uppercase English&nbsp;letters only.</li>
</ul>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Counting**

A valid palindrome string can have at most one character that appears an odd number of times, and the rest of the characters appear an even number of times.

Therefore, we can first traverse the string $s$, count the number of times each character appears, and record it in an array or hash table $cnt$.

Then, we traverse $cnt$, for each character $c$, if $cnt[c]$ is even, then directly add $cnt[c]$ to the answer $ans$; if $cnt[c]$ is odd, then add $cnt[c] - 1$ to $ans$, if $ans$ is even, then increase $ans$ by $1$.

Finally, we return $ans$.

The time complexity is $O(n)$, and the space complexity is $O(C)$. Here, $n$ is the length of the string $s$; and $C$ is the size of the character set, in this problem $C = 128$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **Python3**

```python
class Solution:
    def longestPalindrome(self, s: str) -> int:
        cnt = Counter(s)
        ans = 0
        for v in cnt.values():
            ans += v - (v & 1)
            ans += (ans & 1 ^ 1) and (v & 1)
        return ans
```

### **Java**

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestPalindrome(String s) {
        int[] cnt = new int[128];
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); ++i) {
            ++cnt[s.charAt(i)];
        }
        int ans = 0;
        for (int v : cnt) {
            ans += v - (v & 1);
            if (ans % 2 == 0 && v % 2 == 1) {
                ++ans;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
}
```

### **C++**

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int longestPalindrome(string s) {
        int cnt[128]{};
        for (char& c : s) {
            ++cnt[c];
        }
        int ans = 0;
        for (int v : cnt) {
            ans += v - (v & 1);
            if (ans % 2 == 0 && v % 2 == 1) {
                ++ans;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

### **Go**

```go
func longestPalindrome(s string) (ans int) {
	cnt := [128]int{}
	for _, c := range s {
		cnt[c]++
	}
	for _, v := range cnt {
		ans += v - (v & 1)
		if ans&1 == 0 && v&1 == 1 {
			ans++
		}
	}
	return
}
```

### **TypeScript**

```ts
function longestPalindrome(s: string): number {
    let n = s.length;
    let ans = 0;
    let record = new Array(128).fill(0);
    for (let i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        record[s.charCodeAt(i)]++;
    }
    for (let i = 65; i < 128; i++) {
        let count = record[i];
        ans += count % 2 == 0 ? count : count - 1;
    }
    return ans < s.length ? ans + 1 : ans;
}
```

```ts
function longestPalindrome(s: string): number {
    const map = new Map();
    for (const c of s) {
        map.set(c, (map.get(c) ?? 0) + 1);
    }
    let hasOdd = false;
    let res = 0;
    for (const v of map.values()) {
        res += v;
        if (v & 1) {
            hasOdd = true;
            res--;
        }
    }
    return res + (hasOdd ? 1 : 0);
}
```

### **Rust**

```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

impl Solution {
    pub fn longest_palindrome(s: String) -> i32 {
        let mut map: HashMap<char, i32> = HashMap::new();
        for c in s.chars() {
            map.insert(c, map.get(&c).unwrap_or(&0) + 1);
        }
        let mut has_odd = false;
        let mut res = 0;
        for v in map.values() {
            res += v;
            if v % 2 == 1 {
                has_odd = true;
                res -= 1;
            }
        }
        res + (if has_odd { 1 } else { 0 })
    }
}
```

### **...**

```

```

<!-- tabs:end -->
