solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize the Total Price of the Trips/README_EN.md, before:

# [2646. Minimize the Total Price of the Trips](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-the-total-price-of-the-trips)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/README.md)

<!-- tags:Tree,Depth-First Search,Graph,Array,Dynamic Programming -->

## Description

<p>There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with <code>n</code> nodes indexed from <code>0</code> to <code>n - 1</code>. You are given the integer <code>n</code> and a 2D integer array <code>edges</code> of length <code>n - 1</code>, where <code>edges[i] = [a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub>]</code> indicates that there is an edge between nodes <code>a<sub>i</sub></code> and <code>b<sub>i</sub></code> in the tree.</p>

<p>Each node has an associated price. You are given an integer array <code>price</code>, where <code>price[i]</code> is the price of the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> node.</p>

<p>The <strong>price sum</strong> of a given path is the sum of the prices of all nodes lying on that path.</p>

<p>Additionally, you are given a 2D integer array <code>trips</code>, where <code>trips[i] = [start<sub>i</sub>, end<sub>i</sub>]</code> indicates that you start the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> trip from the node <code>start<sub>i</sub></code> and travel to the node <code>end<sub>i</sub></code> by any path you like.</p>

<p>Before performing your first trip, you can choose some <strong>non-adjacent</strong> nodes and halve the prices.</p>

<p>Return <em>the minimum total price sum to perform all the given trips</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/images/diagram2.png" style="width: 541px; height: 181px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 4, edges = [[0,1],[1,2],[1,3]], price = [2,2,10,6], trips = [[0,3],[2,1],[2,3]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 23
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The diagram above denotes the tree after rooting it at node 2. The first part shows the initial tree and the second part shows the tree after choosing nodes 0, 2, and 3, and making their price half.
For the 1<sup>st</sup> trip, we choose path [0,1,3]. The price sum of that path is 1 + 2 + 3 = 6.
For the 2<sup>nd</sup> trip, we choose path [2,1]. The price sum of that path is 2 + 5 = 7.
For the 3<sup>rd</sup> trip, we choose path [2,1,3]. The price sum of that path is 5 + 2 + 3 = 10.
The total price sum of all trips is 6 + 7 + 10 = 23.
It can be proven, that 23 is the minimum answer that we can achieve.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/images/diagram3.png" style="width: 456px; height: 111px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 2, edges = [[0,1]], price = [2,2], trips = [[0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The diagram above denotes the tree after rooting it at node 0. The first part shows the initial tree and the second part shows the tree after choosing node 0, and making its price half.
For the 1<sup>st</sup> trip, we choose path [0]. The price sum of that path is 1.
The total price sum of all trips is 1. It can be proven, that 1 is the minimum answer that we can achieve.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 50</code></li>
	<li><code>edges.length == n - 1</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub> &lt;= n - 1</code></li>
	<li><code>edges</code> represents a valid tree.</li>
	<li><code>price.length == n</code></li>
	<li><code>price[i]</code> is an even integer.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= price[i] &lt;= 1000</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= trips.length &lt;= 100</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= start<sub>i</sub>, end<sub>i</sub>&nbsp;&lt;= n - 1</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumTotalPrice(
        self, n: int, edges: List[List[int]], price: List[int], trips: List[List[int]]
    ) -> int:
        def dfs(i: int, fa: int, k: int) -> bool:
            cnt[i] += 1
            if i == k:
                return True
            ok = any(j != fa and dfs(j, i, k) for j in g[i])
            if not ok:
                cnt[i] -= 1
            return ok

        def dfs2(i: int, fa: int) -> (int, int):
            a = cnt[i] * price[i]
            b = a // 2
            for j in g[i]:
                if j != fa:
                    x, y = dfs2(j, i)
                    a += min(x, y)
                    b += x
            return a, b

        g = [[] for _ in range(n)]
        for a, b in edges:
            g[a].append(b)
            g[b].append(a)
        cnt = Counter()
        for start, end in trips:
            dfs(start, -1, end)
        return min(dfs2(0, -1))
```

```java
class Solution {
    private List<Integer>[] g;
    private int[] price;
    private int[] cnt;

    public int minimumTotalPrice(int n, int[][] edges, int[] price, int[][] trips) {
        this.price = price;
        cnt = new int[n];
        g = new List[n];
        Arrays.setAll(g, k -> new ArrayList<>());
        for (var e : edges) {
            int a = e[0], b = e[1];
            g[a].add(b);
            g[b].add(a);
        }
        for (var t : trips) {
            int start = t[0], end = t[1];
            dfs(start, -1, end);
        }
        int[] ans = dfs2(0, -1);
        return Math.min(ans[0], ans[1]);
    }

    private boolean dfs(int i, int fa, int k) {
        ++cnt[i];
        if (i == k) {
            return true;
        }
        boolean ok = false;
        for (int j : g[i]) {
            if (j != fa) {
                ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                if (ok) {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        if (!ok) {
            --cnt[i];
        }
        return ok;
    }

    private int[] dfs2(int i, int fa) {
        int a = cnt[i] * price[i];
        int b = a >> 1;
        for (int j : g[i]) {
            if (j != fa) {
                var t = dfs2(j, i);
                a += Math.min(t[0], t[1]);
                b += t[0];
            }
        }
        return new int[] {a, b};
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minimumTotalPrice(int n, vector<vector<int>>& edges, vector<int>& price, vector<vector<int>>& trips) {
        vector<vector<int>> g(n);
        vector<int> cnt(n);
        for (auto& e : edges) {
            int a = e[0], b = e[1];
            g[a].push_back(b);
            g[b].push_back(a);
        }
        function<bool(int, int, int)> dfs = [&](int i, int fa, int k) -> bool {
            ++cnt[i];
            if (i == k) {
                return true;
            }
            bool ok = false;
            for (int j : g[i]) {
                if (j != fa) {
                    ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                    if (ok) {
                        break;
                    }
                }
            }
            if (!ok) {
                --cnt[i];
            }
            return ok;
        };
        function<pair<int, int>(int, int)> dfs2 = [&](int i, int fa) -> pair<int, int> {
            int a = cnt[i] * price[i];
            int b = a >> 1;
            for (int j : g[i]) {
                if (j != fa) {
                    auto [x, y] = dfs2(j, i);
                    a += min(x, y);
                    b += x;
                }
            }
            return {a, b};
        };
        for (auto& t : trips) {
            int start = t[0], end = t[1];
            dfs(start, -1, end);
        }
        auto [a, b] = dfs2(0, -1);
        return min(a, b);
    }
};
```

```go
func minimumTotalPrice(n int, edges [][]int, price []int, trips [][]int) int {
	g := make([][]int, n)
	for _, e := range edges {
		a, b := e[0], e[1]
		g[a] = append(g[a], b)
		g[b] = append(g[b], a)
	}
	cnt := make([]int, n)
	var dfs func(int, int, int) bool
	dfs = func(i, fa, k int) bool {
		cnt[i]++
		if i == k {
			return true
		}
		ok := false
		for _, j := range g[i] {
			if j != fa {
				ok = dfs(j, i, k)
				if ok {
					break
				}
			}
		}
		if !ok {
			cnt[i]--
		}
		return ok
	}
	for _, t := range trips {
		start, end := t[0], t[1]
		dfs(start, -1, end)
	}
	var dfs2 func(int, int) (int, int)
	dfs2 = func(i, fa int) (int, int) {
		a := price[i] * cnt[i]
		b := a >> 1
		for _, j := range g[i] {
			if j != fa {
				x, y := dfs2(j, i)
				a += min(x, y)
				b += x
			}
		}
		return a, b
	}
	a, b := dfs2(0, -1)
	return min(a, b)
}
```

```ts
function minimumTotalPrice(
    n: number,
    edges: number[][],
    price: number[],
    trips: number[][],
): number {
    const g: number[][] = Array.from({ length: n }, () => []);
    for (const [a, b] of edges) {
        g[a].push(b);
        g[b].push(a);
    }
    const cnt: number[] = new Array(n).fill(0);
    const dfs = (i: number, fa: number, k: number): boolean => {
        ++cnt[i];
        if (i === k) {
            return true;
        }
        let ok = false;
        for (const j of g[i]) {
            if (j !== fa) {
                ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                if (ok) {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        if (!ok) {
            --cnt[i];
        }
        return ok;
    };
    for (const [start, end] of trips) {
        dfs(start, -1, end);
    }
    const dfs2 = (i: number, fa: number): number[] => {
        let a: number = price[i] * cnt[i];
        let b: number = a >> 1;
        for (const j of g[i]) {
            if (j !== fa) {
                const [x, y] = dfs2(j, i);
                a += Math.min(x, y);
                b += x;
            }
        }
        return [a, b];
    };
    const [a, b] = dfs2(0, -1);
    return Math.min(a, b);
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->

Commit message:

feat: update solutions to lc problems: No.2642~2646

solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize the Total Price of the Trips/README_EN.md, after:

# [2646. Minimize the Total Price of the Trips](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-the-total-price-of-the-trips)

[中文文档](/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/README.md)

<!-- tags:Tree,Depth-First Search,Graph,Array,Dynamic Programming -->

## Description

<p>There exists an undirected and unrooted tree with <code>n</code> nodes indexed from <code>0</code> to <code>n - 1</code>. You are given the integer <code>n</code> and a 2D integer array <code>edges</code> of length <code>n - 1</code>, where <code>edges[i] = [a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub>]</code> indicates that there is an edge between nodes <code>a<sub>i</sub></code> and <code>b<sub>i</sub></code> in the tree.</p>

<p>Each node has an associated price. You are given an integer array <code>price</code>, where <code>price[i]</code> is the price of the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> node.</p>

<p>The <strong>price sum</strong> of a given path is the sum of the prices of all nodes lying on that path.</p>

<p>Additionally, you are given a 2D integer array <code>trips</code>, where <code>trips[i] = [start<sub>i</sub>, end<sub>i</sub>]</code> indicates that you start the <code>i<sup>th</sup></code> trip from the node <code>start<sub>i</sub></code> and travel to the node <code>end<sub>i</sub></code> by any path you like.</p>

<p>Before performing your first trip, you can choose some <strong>non-adjacent</strong> nodes and halve the prices.</p>

<p>Return <em>the minimum total price sum to perform all the given trips</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/images/diagram2.png" style="width: 541px; height: 181px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 4, edges = [[0,1],[1,2],[1,3]], price = [2,2,10,6], trips = [[0,3],[2,1],[2,3]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 23
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The diagram above denotes the tree after rooting it at node 2. The first part shows the initial tree and the second part shows the tree after choosing nodes 0, 2, and 3, and making their price half.
For the 1<sup>st</sup> trip, we choose path [0,1,3]. The price sum of that path is 1 + 2 + 3 = 6.
For the 2<sup>nd</sup> trip, we choose path [2,1]. The price sum of that path is 2 + 5 = 7.
For the 3<sup>rd</sup> trip, we choose path [2,1,3]. The price sum of that path is 5 + 2 + 3 = 10.
The total price sum of all trips is 6 + 7 + 10 = 23.
It can be proven, that 23 is the minimum answer that we can achieve.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/doocs/leetcode@main/solution/2600-2699/2646.Minimize%20the%20Total%20Price%20of%20the%20Trips/images/diagram3.png" style="width: 456px; height: 111px;" />
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 2, edges = [[0,1]], price = [2,2], trips = [[0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
<strong>Explanation:</strong> The diagram above denotes the tree after rooting it at node 0. The first part shows the initial tree and the second part shows the tree after choosing node 0, and making its price half.
For the 1<sup>st</sup> trip, we choose path [0]. The price sum of that path is 1.
The total price sum of all trips is 1. It can be proven, that 1 is the minimum answer that we can achieve.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 50</code></li>
	<li><code>edges.length == n - 1</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub> &lt;= n - 1</code></li>
	<li><code>edges</code> represents a valid tree.</li>
	<li><code>price.length == n</code></li>
	<li><code>price[i]</code> is an even integer.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= price[i] &lt;= 1000</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= trips.length &lt;= 100</code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= start<sub>i</sub>, end<sub>i</sub>&nbsp;&lt;= n - 1</code></li>
</ul>

## Solutions

### Solution 1: Enumeration

We can enumerate each element $div$ in $divisors$, and calculate how many elements in $nums$ can be divided by $div$, denoted as $cnt$.

-   If $cnt$ is greater than the current maximum divisibility score $mx$, then update $mx = cnt$, and update $ans = div$.
-   If $cnt$ equals $mx$ and $div$ is less than $ans$, then update $ans = div$.

Finally, return $ans$.

The time complexity is $O(m \times n)$, where $m$ and $n$ are the lengths of $nums$ and $divisors$ respectively. The space complexity is $O(1)$.

<!-- tabs:start -->

```python
class Solution:
    def minimumTotalPrice(
        self, n: int, edges: List[List[int]], price: List[int], trips: List[List[int]]
    ) -> int:
        def dfs(i: int, fa: int, k: int) -> bool:
            cnt[i] += 1
            if i == k:
                return True
            ok = any(j != fa and dfs(j, i, k) for j in g[i])
            if not ok:
                cnt[i] -= 1
            return ok

        def dfs2(i: int, fa: int) -> (int, int):
            a = cnt[i] * price[i]
            b = a // 2
            for j in g[i]:
                if j != fa:
                    x, y = dfs2(j, i)
                    a += min(x, y)
                    b += x
            return a, b

        g = [[] for _ in range(n)]
        for a, b in edges:
            g[a].append(b)
            g[b].append(a)
        cnt = Counter()
        for start, end in trips:
            dfs(start, -1, end)
        return min(dfs2(0, -1))
```

```java
class Solution {
    private List<Integer>[] g;
    private int[] price;
    private int[] cnt;

    public int minimumTotalPrice(int n, int[][] edges, int[] price, int[][] trips) {
        this.price = price;
        cnt = new int[n];
        g = new List[n];
        Arrays.setAll(g, k -> new ArrayList<>());
        for (var e : edges) {
            int a = e[0], b = e[1];
            g[a].add(b);
            g[b].add(a);
        }
        for (var t : trips) {
            int start = t[0], end = t[1];
            dfs(start, -1, end);
        }
        int[] ans = dfs2(0, -1);
        return Math.min(ans[0], ans[1]);
    }

    private boolean dfs(int i, int fa, int k) {
        ++cnt[i];
        if (i == k) {
            return true;
        }
        boolean ok = false;
        for (int j : g[i]) {
            if (j != fa) {
                ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                if (ok) {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        if (!ok) {
            --cnt[i];
        }
        return ok;
    }

    private int[] dfs2(int i, int fa) {
        int a = cnt[i] * price[i];
        int b = a >> 1;
        for (int j : g[i]) {
            if (j != fa) {
                var t = dfs2(j, i);
                a += Math.min(t[0], t[1]);
                b += t[0];
            }
        }
        return new int[] {a, b};
    }
}
```

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minimumTotalPrice(int n, vector<vector<int>>& edges, vector<int>& price, vector<vector<int>>& trips) {
        vector<vector<int>> g(n);
        vector<int> cnt(n);
        for (auto& e : edges) {
            int a = e[0], b = e[1];
            g[a].push_back(b);
            g[b].push_back(a);
        }
        function<bool(int, int, int)> dfs = [&](int i, int fa, int k) -> bool {
            ++cnt[i];
            if (i == k) {
                return true;
            }
            bool ok = false;
            for (int j : g[i]) {
                if (j != fa) {
                    ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                    if (ok) {
                        break;
                    }
                }
            }
            if (!ok) {
                --cnt[i];
            }
            return ok;
        };
        function<pair<int, int>(int, int)> dfs2 = [&](int i, int fa) -> pair<int, int> {
            int a = cnt[i] * price[i];
            int b = a >> 1;
            for (int j : g[i]) {
                if (j != fa) {
                    auto [x, y] = dfs2(j, i);
                    a += min(x, y);
                    b += x;
                }
            }
            return {a, b};
        };
        for (auto& t : trips) {
            int start = t[0], end = t[1];
            dfs(start, -1, end);
        }
        auto [a, b] = dfs2(0, -1);
        return min(a, b);
    }
};
```

```go
func minimumTotalPrice(n int, edges [][]int, price []int, trips [][]int) int {
	g := make([][]int, n)
	for _, e := range edges {
		a, b := e[0], e[1]
		g[a] = append(g[a], b)
		g[b] = append(g[b], a)
	}
	cnt := make([]int, n)
	var dfs func(int, int, int) bool
	dfs = func(i, fa, k int) bool {
		cnt[i]++
		if i == k {
			return true
		}
		ok := false
		for _, j := range g[i] {
			if j != fa {
				ok = dfs(j, i, k)
				if ok {
					break
				}
			}
		}
		if !ok {
			cnt[i]--
		}
		return ok
	}
	for _, t := range trips {
		start, end := t[0], t[1]
		dfs(start, -1, end)
	}
	var dfs2 func(int, int) (int, int)
	dfs2 = func(i, fa int) (int, int) {
		a := price[i] * cnt[i]
		b := a >> 1
		for _, j := range g[i] {
			if j != fa {
				x, y := dfs2(j, i)
				a += min(x, y)
				b += x
			}
		}
		return a, b
	}
	a, b := dfs2(0, -1)
	return min(a, b)
}
```

```ts
function minimumTotalPrice(
    n: number,
    edges: number[][],
    price: number[],
    trips: number[][],
): number {
    const g: number[][] = Array.from({ length: n }, () => []);
    for (const [a, b] of edges) {
        g[a].push(b);
        g[b].push(a);
    }
    const cnt: number[] = new Array(n).fill(0);
    const dfs = (i: number, fa: number, k: number): boolean => {
        ++cnt[i];
        if (i === k) {
            return true;
        }
        let ok = false;
        for (const j of g[i]) {
            if (j !== fa) {
                ok = dfs(j, i, k);
                if (ok) {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        if (!ok) {
            --cnt[i];
        }
        return ok;
    };
    for (const [start, end] of trips) {
        dfs(start, -1, end);
    }
    const dfs2 = (i: number, fa: number): number[] => {
        let a: number = price[i] * cnt[i];
        let b: number = a >> 1;
        for (const j of g[i]) {
            if (j !== fa) {
                const [x, y] = dfs2(j, i);
                a += Math.min(x, y);
                b += x;
            }
        }
        return [a, b];
    };
    const [a, b] = dfs2(0, -1);
    return Math.min(a, b);
}
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

<!-- end -->
