solution/1700-1799/1729.Find Followers Count/README_EN.md, before:

# [1729. Find Followers Count](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-followers-count)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1729.Find%20Followers%20Count/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Followers</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| user_id     | int  |
| follower_id | int  |
+-------------+------+
(user_id, follower_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
This table contains the IDs of a user and a follower in a social media app where the follower follows the user.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution that will, for each user, return the number of followers.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>user_id</code> in ascending order.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Followers table:
+---------+-------------+
| user_id | follower_id |
+---------+-------------+
| 0       | 1           |
| 1       | 0           |
| 2       | 0           |
| 2       | 1           |
+---------+-------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+----------------+
| user_id | followers_count|
+---------+----------------+
| 0       | 1              |
| 1       | 1              |
| 2       | 2              |
+---------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The followers of 0 are {1}
The followers of 1 are {0}
The followers of 2 are {0,1}
</pre>

## Solutions

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
SELECT
    user_id,
    COUNT(1) AS followers_count
FROM Followers
GROUP BY user_id
ORDER BY user_id;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

feat: add sql solutions to lc problems
* No.0550.Game Play Analysis IV
* No.0596.Classes More Than 5 Students
* No.0619.Biggest Single Number
* No.1045.Customers Who Bought All Products
* No.1729.Find Followers Count
* No.1731.The Number of Employees Which Report to Each Employee
* No.1789.Primary Department for Each Employee

solution/1700-1799/1729.Find Followers Count/README_EN.md, after:

# [1729. Find Followers Count](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-followers-count)

[中文文档](/solution/1700-1799/1729.Find%20Followers%20Count/README.md)

## Description

<p>Table: <code>Followers</code></p>

<pre>
+-------------+------+
| Column Name | Type |
+-------------+------+
| user_id     | int  |
| follower_id | int  |
+-------------+------+
(user_id, follower_id) is the primary key (combination of columns with unique values) for this table.
This table contains the IDs of a user and a follower in a social media app where the follower follows the user.</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Write a solution that will, for each user, return the number of followers.</p>

<p>Return the result table ordered by <code>user_id</code> in ascending order.</p>

<p>The&nbsp;result format is in the following example.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> 
Followers table:
+---------+-------------+
| user_id | follower_id |
+---------+-------------+
| 0       | 1           |
| 1       | 0           |
| 2       | 0           |
| 2       | 1           |
+---------+-------------+
<strong>Output:</strong> 
+---------+----------------+
| user_id | followers_count|
+---------+----------------+
| 0       | 1              |
| 1       | 1              |
| 2       | 2              |
+---------+----------------+
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
The followers of 0 are {1}
The followers of 1 are {0}
The followers of 2 are {0,1}
</pre>

## Solutions

**Solution 1: Grouping and Aggregation**

We can directly group the `Followers` table by `user_id`, and use the `COUNT` function to count the number of followers for each user.

<!-- tabs:start -->

### **SQL**

```sql
# Write your MySQL query statement below
SELECT user_id, COUNT(1) AS followers_count
FROM Followers
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1;
```

<!-- tabs:end -->
